Where subject and system collapse in autopoetic epistemology (causing perception and representation, which are dependent upon the organizing principle of the system, to be played out in self-reflexive reiteration) in emer- gent systems like cellular automata, subjectivity is socialized and the system functions as a “community.” ... In cellular automata, the contra- diction between individual autonomy and community collapses. Cellular automata embody an oscillating, productive tension between the individual and the social—there is no observer, only interdependent agents or actors. ... The problem of the role of the observer in physics and cybernetics is par- allel to the problem of authorship and representation in art. ... 
Foucault quote: "depriving the subject (or its substitute) of its role as originator, and of analyzing the subject as a variable and complex function of a [system or] discourse"
After three thousand years of specialist explosion and of increasing specialism and alienation in he technological extensions of our bodies, our world has become compressional by dramatic reversal. As electrically cointracted, the globe is no more than a village... It is this implosive factor that alters the position of the Negro, the teen-ager, and some other groups. They can no longer be contained, in the political sense of limited association. They are now involved in our lives, as we in theirs, thanks to the electric media.
Arkhę, we recall, names at once the commencement and the commandment. This name apparently coordinates two principles in one: the principle according to nature or history, there where things commence –physical, historical, or ontological principle– but also the principle according to the law, there where men and gods command, there where authority, social order are exercised, in this place from which order is given –nomological principle.
[I]mmanence, if it were to come about, would instantly suppress community, or communication, as such. Death is not only the example of this, it is its truth. In death, at least if one considers in it what brings about immanence (decomposition leading back to nature) [...] there is no longer any community or communication: there is only the continuous identity of atoms. [Death is] always irreducibly singular. Immanence, communal fusion, contains no other logic than that of the suicide of the community that is governed by it. [the logic of Nazi Germany; the joint suicide or death of lovers] [And the Hegelian State] where each member has his truth in the other, which is the State itself, whose reality is never more present than when its members give their lives in a war [, imagining] their death reabsorbed or sublated in a community, yet to come, that would attain immanence. [...] However, this consciousness, like that of the 'loss' of community, is superficial. In truth, death is not sublated. [...] The modern age has struggled to close the circle of the time of men and their communities in an immortal communion in which death, finally, loses the senseless meaning that it ought to have –and that it has, obstinately. [Yet we reduced] to search for this meaning beyond meaning of death elsewhere than in community [...] Death is indissociable from community, for it is through death that the community reveals itself –and reciprocally. [...] The motif of the revelation, through death, of being-together or being-with, and of the crystallization of the community around the [...] 'loss' (the impossibility) of their immanence [...], leads to a space of thinking inconmensurable with the problematics of sociality or intersubjectivity [...] Death irremediably exceeds the resources of a metaphysics of the subject. [...] All of Heidegger's research into 'being-for (or toward)-death' was nothing other than an attempt to state this: I is not –am not-a subject. [...] [Community is] calibrated on the death of those whom we call, perhaps wrongly, its 'members.' But it does not make a work of this calibration. Community no more makes a work out of death than it is itself a work. [This death] does not operate the dead being's passage into some communal intimacy [and does not] operate the transfiguration of its dead into some substance or subject. [From this death] it is precisely impossible to make a work [...] other than a work of death [...] the impossibility of making a work out of death is inscribed and acknowledged as 'community.' Community is revealed in the death of others; hence it is always revealed to others. Community is what takes place always through others and for others. [...] A community is not a project of fusion, or in some general way a productive or operative project –nor is it a project at all. [...] A community is the presentation to its members of their mortal truth. [...] its death, but also its birth, and only the community can present me my birth, and along with it the impossibility of my reliving it, as well as the impossibility of my crossing over into my death.
Through his music, his visual art and his ideas, Eno has surfed this computerization of society and surrendered himself to it. In doing so he has contributed enormously to defining it. Part of what he found -and practiced- is that the traditional notions of high art and fine art are not as useful as they once were. "the traditional sites for art activity seem to be losing their power, while new sites for art are becoming powerful."
“DNA is probably the most beautiful example of database aesthetics and certainly points to the importance of grasping the efficiency and beauty of design that nature employs in all of life”
Nancy’s text was instrumental for those thinking a deconstructive politics to diagnose what ailed the contemporary West: the legacies of fascism and other ‘immanentist’ politics, such as nationalism, as well as the ascent of liberal capitalism. As is well known, désœuvrement is a term meaning ‘unworked’ or ‘idle’, and Nancy’s task was to think community as otherwise than as a means for something beyond itself. This, in a sense, is his own take on Kant’s categorical imperative: the production of evil is where the spacing of community is denied in the name of an end beyond itself. [...] To think community means, for Nancy, thinking the alteration of the world and not something other than the world 
from the 1990s to the twenty-first century, artistic practive in the field of database aesthetics and data visualization has undergone a significant shift. Projects in the 1990s and early 2000s often experimented with the dynamic mapping of the Internet as territory or specific data sets or networked communication. The Web 2.0 era brought forth the phenomenon of big data, collections of data sets sos complex that they require new software tools for capture, search, analysis, and visualization. Big data analytics, the process of examining big data to uncover hidden patterns and unknown correlations also became a subject in art.

The digital simulation capabilities of the computer create a break with the paradigm of representation we have followed since the Renaissance. The computer has the capability of combining sound, text, and image within a single database. Images no longer reside in the visual field but in the database of the computer (see Chapter 5). To see an image, information about the image’s structure of lights and darks must be called up for display. The image is thus an information structure which has no physical presence in the real world. Not only is it a dematerialized image, but it is also one which can be destabilized and constantly invaded, changed, and manipulated by a viewer interactively through software commands. This possibility for intervention and interaction challenges notions of a discrete work of art, one that is authored by the artist alone. An interactive work is one which uses branching systems and networks for creating connective links and nodes. The artist who decides to work with technology now assumes a different role in relationship to creating work, one similar to a systems designer, and the work takes on a different route in relationship to the viewer who participates in the work’s ultimate unfolding and meaning.
... Re-collector [james coupe] would appear to exploiit precisely that direct cntact with the sensory flux that Mraurizio Lazzarato, following Nam June Paik, discerns in video technology: "all images produced by electronic and difital technologies are tranformation and combinations (composites) of intensities, forces, fields, taking place in the flow -the electromagnetic flow in the case of vide,ethe optical flow in the case fo the telematic, the algorhythmnic flow in the case of the computer. The transition from the first to the last can be defined as an increasingly forced deterritorialization. ... The flow of information overgomces, again, matter, and light is just mathematic (non-discursive) language. 
Data  coulb be endlessly manipulated and stored in databases or archives to be called up for a myriad of uses within numerous contexts and disciplines, especially with regard to long-distance communications. 
Yet another form that globalisation takes in art is the explosive emergence of counter-globalisation artistic practices.... Second, the contemporary is witnessing the emergence of a new technological imaginary following the unexpected and unregulated global expansion of the new communication and information technologies of the Internet. What began as a Cold War project designed to provide a functioning communications network in the case of a nuclear attack has exploded since the early 1990s development of the global hypertext space, the World Wide Web. The full integration of electronic and digital culture that has developed in the contemporary period reverberates in a number of ways within the context of art and art history. For one thing, technological art objects have increasingly come to replace tangible ones in art galleries and museums, which have seen an upsurge of high-tech hybrids of all kinds, from digital photography,
to film and video installations, to computer and other ‘new media’ art. The white cube has begun to be replaced by the black box, the small-screen film or video monitor by the large-scale wall projection. The image has come to replace the object as the central concern of artistic production and analysis. In the academy, the rise of visual studies in this period is symptomatic of this new pre-eminence of the image.14 Furthermore, the imaginary nature of this shift from analogue to digital has had a number of unpredictable effects.
This book is about precisely this phenomenon of audiovisual illusion, an illusion located first and foremost in the heart of the most important of relations between sound and image, as illustrated above with Bergman: what we shall call added value. By added value I mean the expressive and informative value with which a sound enriches a given image so as to create the def- inite impression, in the immediate or remembered experience one has of it, that this information or expression 'naturally' comes from what is seen, and is already contained in the image itself
The market for spatial sound systems continues to grow and a multitude of software applications and plug-ins are available. At the same time, spatial sound has invaded the world of electronic art; it is now common to find gallery installations and sculptures that deploy distributed loudspeakers. The physicality of spatial sound is often a theme in these works. 
Story is generally organized through absence [...] absence is a kind of aperture. ... Photos should not illustrate. They should reveal the gap ... historical models, absence is the gap between a fact and a collective lie, ... architecture, absence is the space where unfinish is revealed [...] fissure that reveals traces of old mistakes,[...]erasures[...]the void between data and plot points.... each medium is magnificently endowed with absence.[...]absence is what the medium [...] cannot deliver.
The musical avant-garde thus inhabits several contradictions. On the one hand, being no longer marginal and critical of the dominant order as in the earlier period  of modernism, but itself established, it has not only undermined its initial raison d'être but it must also continually legitimize its present position of official subsidy in the absence of a large audience. On the other hand, it continues to promote an avant-garde view of history in which the present state of things is denigrated in promise of greater things to come, of advancing the future of music.... The case of IRCAM illuminates these questions well since IRCAM represents an extreme of legitimacy and subsidy in the contemporary music world: it is a uniquely authoritative and well-funded institution. Yet rather than an aberrant development, IRCAM is the outcome of certain converging, if distings, historical processes and can be seen to epitomize contemporary musical modernism.
Aesthetics has two 'modus operandi'. First, it constructs what is outside the brain into packages of information that can be understoo drapidly and efficiently. It does so by creating and recreating networks that can be appreciated as an ensemble, and whose assemblage is dictated by the proclivities of the neurobiological apparatus.  That is to say that the connections between objects, their relations, and the spaces they occupy are arrangedd spatially and temporally according to the prescribed architectonic arrangements of neural networks in the brain. The  history of aesthetics is partly an unconscious dialogue between the evolving neurobiological structures and the mutating cultural/visual landscape. In this way aesthetics can be seen to be 'ergonomically' activating. Aesthetcis constructs and organizes the visual landscape according to prescribed rules that are tuned to specific abilities of the human nervous system, allowing it to respond with greater efficiency. ... the nervous system has been sculpted by certain political, historical, psychological, and social relations that form homologous interdititated ensembles of coherent meaning. Aesthetic production, being as it is an output of that inscribed neurobiological structure, will reflect that condition.
A congruence of factors emerged in the last century that created conditions that broke down traditional concepts of art as object and forced the evolution of dynamic forms with new functions. These factors challenge authorship as well as relations between artist and audience in the construction of meaning, and they rise new questions about the relationship between theory and practice.
 the postmodern orthodoxy that the body is primarily, if not entirely, a linguistic and discursive construction.  [...] dematerialization of embodiment that is one of the characteristic features of postmodern ideology. [...] difference between the body as a cultural construct and the experiences of embodiment that individual people within a culture feel and articulate; the other, the difference between inscribing and incorporating practices. [...] connections between the immateriality of information and the material conditions of its production. [...] the body is constructed within postmodern discourse as an immaterial informational structure [...]  evidence, not that the body has disappeared, but that a certain kind of postmodern subjectivity has emerged. This subjectivity is constituted by the crossing of the materiality of informatics with the immateriality of information. By “informatics” (a term appropriated from Donna Haraway, who uses it in a somewhat different sense), I mean the material, technological, economic, and social structures that make the information age possible. Informatics includes the late capitalist mode of flexible accumulation; the hardware and software that have merged telecommunications with computer technology; the patterns of living that emerge from and depend upon access to large data banks and instantaneous transmission of messages; and changing habits of posture, eye focus, hand motions, and neural connections that are reconfiguring the human body in conjunction with information technologies. [...]  one of the principal effects associated with the regime of flexible accumulation [in late capitalism] is the decreasing friction of materiality. [...] 
[W]hat is most insistent in Nancy's work is precisely its desire to describe a form of originary sociality that cannot be characterized in terms of sovereignty and the law, but as the merest 'opening of a space.' Such an opening... does not seem immediately political: in truth, it seems rather bare [or a] nudity, a laying bare, a place of exposure and exposition [a space left free]. [T]his pure opening is simply the condition of the political without itself being political [...] [N]udity and exposition depict the primary structure of sociality in the form of an offering. [...] 'if one likes, the ontology of the common is not immediately political' [Nancy, Rien que le monde, p.7] The negativity of this "not..." (immediately, yet, just, etc.) that separates ontology from politics already has a name: mediation. [Nancy] virtually subscribing, in its barest elements, to the Hegelian concept of the political over and against the Marxist critique. [...] 'community is revealed in the death of others; hence it always revealed to others' [Nancy, The Inoperative Community, p.15] The structure of [community's] phenomenality shades into its disappearance: the community reveals itself at the very instant of the others' death, that is, at the instant when there is no longer any community [...] [I]f there is a certain negativity in this subtraction [of the 'work' from community], it refers not to a form, but to an opening or a space [to be left free]. The encounter with the other takes place only in the stripping bare of every cultural predicate: love is indissociable from the nudity of the other's taking place.
For Arendt, the term ‘public’ refers to the world itself, which can be related to all of the enduring artifacts fabricated by human hands and the many affairs that compose human experience.
One example from systems theory that provides an interesting model for thinking about the relation of subject to system is the cellular automata. Cellular automata are self-evolving or emergent systems that extend in space and unfold in time according to local laws. The automata is a field or frame, usually visualized as a two- or therr-dimensional grid of cells or pixels. Each cell or pixel may 'behave' independently at each 'step' in time based on a table of rules and a given initial condition. The table of rules is a set of definitions for the behavior of each pixel or cell in relation to the state of each neighboring pixel or cell. A global state emerges from the local interactions of discrete entities in an iterative and evolving system. In emergent systems such as cellular automata, subjectivity is socialized. The system itself functions both as an individual subject and a 'community' of subjects. Cellular automata exemplify a collapse of the binary opposition of autonomy and community and embody an oscillating, productive tension between the individual and the social, which suggests the potential of a new subject position, one I will call the 'system_subject'. From the system_subject, the cybernetic collapse is mobile, it may be reversed, inverted, repeated, and revised. The enlightenment model of the individual 'I' is displaced by a contingency that may function as a single entity or a distributed network of entities within a system narrative.
This doubt about the well-foundedness of the best of intentions pushes some of us to become reactionaries, in one of two ways. We must no longer try to put an end to man's domination of man, say some; we must no longer try to dominate nature, say others. Let us be resolutely antimodern, they all say. [...] all [Modernity's] definitions point, in one way or another, to the passage of time. The adjective 'modem' designates a new regime, an acceleration, a rupture, a revolution in time. When the word 'modern', 'modernization', or 'modernity' appears, we are defining, by contrast, an archaic and stable past. [...] Will a different democracy become necessary? A democracy extended to things? To answer these questions, I shall have to sort out the premoderns, the moderns, and even the postmoderns in order to distinguish between their durable characteristics and their lethal ones.
The attribution of human, unhuman, nonhuman, inhuman, characteristics; the distribution of properties among these entities; the connections established between them; the circulation entailed by these attributions, distributions and connections; the transformation of those attributions, distributions and connections, of the many elements that circulates and of the few ways through which they are sent.
Communism [...] communicates with an extremity of play, of sovereignty, even of ecstasy from which the individual as such remains definitely removed. [...] [T]his proposal [...] went unrecognized, not only by 'real' communism [Lenin, Stalin, Trotsky], but also [...] by those singular 'communists' [Marx, early Soviet artists, Benjamin, Blanchot] who were perhaps never able to recognize [how to] reveal what haunted their use of the word 'communism.' [T]heir communication with such a thinking [of community] has remained secret, or suspended. [They] were speaking about community and [...] about nothing else. [...] The professionals of society saw in them [...] the unconscious return of a 'republic of artists.' [...] In one way or another, it was a matter of a simple, classical, and dogmatic system of truth: an art (or a thought ) adequate to politics(to the form or the description of community), a politics adequate to art. The basic presupposition remained that of a community effectuating itself in the absolute of the work, or effectuating itself as work. [...] this 'modernity' remained in its principle a humanism. [...] [W]e must allow that communism can no longer be the unsurpassable horizon of our time.
Two logical infirmities are apparent which deny them the right to speak of chance on the one hand and "composition" on the other... 1. The interpreter is a highly conditioned being, so that it is not possible to accept the thesis of unconditioned choice, of an interpreter acting like a roulette game... 2. The composer commits an act of resignation when he admits several possible and equivalent circuits. In the name of a "scheme" the problem of choice is betrayed, and it is the interpreter who is promoted to the rank of composer by the composer himself. There is thus a substitution of authors...
Community necessarily takes place in what Blanchot has called “unworking”, referring to that which, before or beyond the work, withdraws from the work, and which, no longer having to do either with production or with completion, encounters interruption, fragmentation, suspension. Community is made of the interruption of singularities, or of the suspension that singular beings are. Community is not the work of singular beings, nor can it claim them as it works, just as communication is not a work or even an operation of singular beings, for community is simply their being -their being suspended upon its limit. Communication is the unworking of work that is social, economic, technical, and institutional.
Marcel Duchamps’ dictum of concept over object in art and his eventual decision to give up painting entirely in order to become a freelance librarian [...] drew attention to the intersection of information and aesthetics
... black boxing is not an obstacle of transparency here, but the primary condition for its very possibility. Applying this notion of transparency to algorithmic black boxes would only be half the solution as it does not provide means to position oneself critically towards what is inside the box. This concept however hass a long tradition in the philosophy of technology, and has actually always been an ideal of meadia and media practices. It is here that we find an understanding of transparency and its limits that allows for the critical position we seek. ((((continue to page 144 cause it's good))))
For Lazzarato, as fr DEleuze before him, video and digital technologies take the lace of the Bergsonist body as center of indetermination within a universe of images; what results is a massive deterritorialization of perception from its allefedly constraining correlation to human embodiment and habit. ... Operating as 'maachines to crystallize time,' vidfeo and digital technologies increase the delay between perception and reactionl in this way they extend our power to act beyond the well-worn contradictions known as habit. Yet the key question remains wheether, in so doing, the sever contact with embodied sensation.
The computer offers a model that has the characteristics shared by all automation. From the point of intake of materials to the output of the finished product, the operations tend to be independently, as well as interdependently, automatic. The synchronized concert of operations is under the control of gauges and instruments that can be varied from the control-panel boards that are themselves electronic. The material of intake is relatively uniform in shape, size, and chemical properties, as likewise the material of the output. But the processing under these conditions permit use of the highest level of capacity for any needed period. It is, as compared with older machines, the difference between an oboe in an orchestra and the same tone on an electronic music instrument. With the electronic music instrument, any tone can be made available in any intensity and for any length of time. Note that the older symphony orchestra was, by comparison, a machine of separate instruments that gave the effect of organic unity. With the electronic instrument, one starts with organic unity as an immediate fact of perfect synchronization. This makes the attempt to create the effect of organic unity quite pointless. Electronic music must seek other goals.
The unconsious does not know the difference here between the virtual and the actual, the intention and the action (a certain Judaism also, by the way)... the intention... the acting out also, this left an archive... the unconscious would have been able to keep the archive... of its suspension or of its repression... an archive of the virtual... What will become of this when we will indeed have to remove the convept of virtuality from the couple which opposes it to actuality, to effectivity, or to reality?... The moment has come to accept a great stirring in our conceptual archive, and in it to cross a "logic of the unconsious" with a way of thinking of the virtual which is no longer limited by the traditional philosophical opposition between act and power.
In what you have just read, I have traversed a field of data and activated a set of associations: the death of the author and the role of the observer; the aesthetics of the database; parallels among complex social and collabo- rative systems; social aesthetics in the context of the materiality of infor- matics; the emergence of the collective-narrating-participant-subject; and the philosophy of an activist aesthetics of dignity. I hope these associations emerge as a new ontology of aesthetics that will change and transform the structure of that field.
database is now commonly understood as a computerized record- keeping system, it is essentially a structured collection of data that stands in the tradition of “data containers” such as a book, a library, an archive, or Wunderkammer.
... it has beceome a commonplace to insist that 'images' played a central role in twentieth-century culture and promise to play an even more powerful role in tewnty-first century life and thought. And if one also believes, as Kaja Silverman has insisted, that visuality is onur most significant and primary form of ethical engagement with the world, then the continueds refinement of image-producing technologies such as photography and cinema, and their dissemination through multiple arenas of life, ranging from leisure activities to war and surveillance technologies, seems to justify claims that modern socieety is obsessed with and inscribed by spectacles and images.
Originary writing, if there is one, must produce the space and the materiality of the sheet itself. ... If we consider first verbal expression, as it is circumscribed in the dream, we observe that its sonority, the materiality of the expression, does not disappear before the signified, or at least cannot be traversed and transgressed as it is in conscious speech. It acts as such, with the efficacy Artaud assigned it on the stage of cruelty. The materiality of a word cannot be translated or carried over into another language. Materiality is precisely that which translation relinquishes. To relinquish materiality: such is the driving force of translation. And when that materiality is reinstated, translation becomes poetry. ... Dreams are untranslatable... There is no present text in general, and there is not even a past present text, a text which is past as having been present. The text is not conceivable in an originary or modified form of presence. The unconscious text is already a weave of pure traces, differences in which meaning and force are united –a text nowhere present, consisting of archives which are always already transcriptions. Originary prints. Everything begins with reproduction. Always already: repositories of a meaning which was never present, whose signified presence is always reconstituted by deferral, nachträglich, belatedly, supplementarily: for the nachträglich also means supplementary.
The synthesis of music by a computer was born in 1957 when an IBM704 in New York City slowly computed a 17-second ‘piece’ composed in what was probably the first audible example of a new musical scale with my program, Music 1.
Just beore an airplane breaks the sound barrier, sound wasves become visible on the wings of the plane. The sudden visibility of sound just as sound ends is an apt instance of that great pattern of being that reveals new and opposite forms just as the earlier forms reach their peak performance... When electric speed further takes over from mechanical movie sequences, then the lines of force in structures and in media become loud and clear. We return to the inclusive form of the icon.
The computing machine is a marvelous invention and seems almost superhuman. But in reality it is as limited as the mind of the individual who feeds it material. Like the computer, the machines we use for making music can only give back what we put into them.
I have approached the aesthetic and operative nature of the database for more than twenty years in my artistic practice. ...I have focused on meta-meaning production using navigation and combinatorial strate- gies across a series of technological substrates. ... Through interaction ←→ intra-action, one can witness meaning as it is being formed and changed based on individual and group involvement. ... Participants function in a unity with the media through interaction, ... By operating on the media-elements in the works, they derive or better create emergent meaning ... For each database-related work, one must define a classification system or set of systems to enable specific media-elements to become operative in a meaningful manner.
In human memory, it is unclear what really happens to old, disused or deliberately ignored memory traces ---they might be retrievable, they might be lost, but no-one can tell.
Datafication -- transforming all things under the sun into a data format and thus quantifying them -- is at the heart of the networked world. Data are also at the centre of our media practices: data feed the many applications we use on a variety of platforms, they flow from users and devices to services and platforms, making connections and scaling audiences at an unprecedented rate. Networked connectivity runs on data -- the new oil of the information economy. Just as electricity changed industrial processes and domestic practices in the nineteenth century, a data-driven paradigm will constitute the core of twenty-first-century processes and practices. It is therefore no surprise that data have moved to the centre of media research and have become protagonists in media narratives.
Determinate negation rejects the defective ideas of the absolute, the idols, differently than does rigorism, which confronts them with the Idea that they cannot match up to. Dialectic, on the contrary, interprets every image as writing. It shows how the admission of its falsity is to be read in the lines of its features –a confession that deprives it of its power and appropriates it for truth. With the notion of determinate negativity, Hegel revealed an element that distinguishes the Enlightenment from the positivist degeneracy to which he attributes it. By ultimately making the conscious result of the whole process of negation –totality in system and in history– into an absolute, he of course contravened the prohibition and himself lapsed into mythology
The term “data” originated as the plural of the Latin word datum, meaning “something given.”1 In the world of experience, our datum is a culturally constructed social context.
to be all ears' [être à l'écoute], to be listening [...] 'to be tuned in' [...] Être aux écoutes, 'to listen in, to eavesdrop' [...] écouter [...] tendre l'oreille –literally, to stretch the ear [...] it is an intensification and a concern, a curiosuty or an anxiety. [...] in all [discourse] there is a hearing, and in hearing itself [entendre, understanding], at the very bottom of it, a listening. [...] Listening aims at –or is aroused by– the [tendency] where sound and sense [meaning and the sense of hearing] mix together and resonate in each other, or through each other. [...] Sound that is musically listened to, that is gathered and scrutinized for itself, not, however, as [merely] an acoustic phenomenon [...] but as a resonant meaning, a meaning whose sense is supposed to be found in resonance, and only in resonance. [Meaning] is made of a totality of referrals: from sign to a thing, from a state of things to a quality, from a subject to another subject or to itself, all simultaneously. Sound is also made of referrals: it spreads in space, where it resounds while still resounding 'in me' [...] 'sounding,' which is already 're-sounding' [...] to sound is to vibrate in itself or by itself [...] This space [of referral] can be defined as the space of a self, a subject. A self is nothing other than a form or function of referral: a self is made of a relationship to self, or of a presence to self [...] the mutual referral between a perceptive individuation and an intelligible identity (not just the individual in the current sense of the word, but in him the singular occurrences of a state, a tension, or, precisely, a 'sense')– this referral would have to be infinite. [...] To be listening will always [be] an approach to the self [a crisis (access) of self], neither to a proper self (I), nor to the self of an other, but the [...] form, structure, and movement of an infinite referral [renvoi]
The first step in working with a database is the collection and assembly of the data. The presentation of the database involves sorting and filtering so that some of the data is shown, some omitted. Sorting determines the sequence of presentation, while filtering gives rules for admission into the set presented. ... only a portion of the material goes through this process [...]  resulting in a database that is a subset of the “shot material” data- base. Editing is selecting from the database and sequencing the selections. ... For a filmmaker, database thinking is liberation—one is freed to let the material breathe.[...] To go further: for a filmmaker the term “cutting,” as “editing,” loses its meaning, and “sorting,” “assembling,” and “mapping” become more apt metaphors for the activity of composition.
Networked relations in the real workd configure network erelations in the brain. Photography, cinema, and now new media have done much to change the way time and space are encoded into t he networked relations of the world, and have done much to reconfigure the real world intoareal/virtual interface. Fields of phatic signifiers have been artificaially created to capture the attention of the human observer. Utilizing a strategy I hav etermed cognitve ergonomics, arttificial stimuli have been ergineered to have superior attention-grabbing capabilities beyond their naturally created counterparts. As such, these artificial stimuli compete more effectively for neural space as they configure superior neural network configurations that are faster and more efficient. THere ergonomically contrived network sysetems have selective advantage over those that  are not, and thus crowd out those less selective neural networks. Somewhere in the midsts of this ontogenetic process we meet Thomas, the main charatceer of Blow Up, who suffers through a predicament beyond his control. It is a kind of disease of the late twentieth century that w might call 'artificially induced disparate memory syndrome,' in which organic and artificial memory systems compete for consiousness';s attention, leaving the subject distraught and disassociated.
[T]he word "communism" stands as an emblem of the desire to discover or rediscover a place of community at once beyond social divisions and beyond subordination to technopolitical dominion [...] a place from which to surmount the unraveling that occurs with the death of each one of us [...] the death of the individual [which] carries an unbearable burden and collapses into insignificance. [I]t is an emblem capable of inferring a fierce but impotent resistance to the visible collapse of what is promised [...] because the States that acclaimed it have appeared [...]  as the agents of its betrayal [, and because] the very basis of the communist ideal that ended up appearing most problematic: [...] human beings defined as producers [defined at all], and fundamentally as the producers of their own essence in the form of their labor or their work. [...] An absolute immanence of man to man –a humanism– and of community to community –a communism– obstinately subtends [...] all forms of oppositional communism [...] [I]t is man [...] that constitutes the stumbling block to a thinking of community [...]
Here water, archi- tecture, commerce, and tourism comprise a system that is both emergent and immersive: a physical and historical “collaborative system.”... Jameson Quote: “‘With the breakdown of the signifying chain, therefore, the schizophrenic is reduced to an experience of pure material signifiers, or, in other words, a series of pure and unrelated presents in time’ (ibid.). To “lose one’s way” in the city would be oxymoronic—it is the condition of being in Venice, as such. ... The construction of Venice was an expres- sion of power—the desire to dominate nature for the sake of commerce and control. Composed of incompatible elements, the flickering insubstan- tiality of its fluid markers, names and traces, Venice teeters on the brink of submission—power giving way to impossibility.
Together, STS and ANT provided an important counter to the almost religious rhetoric of cyberspace and virtual reality that played a large role in critical cyberculture studies and early new media theory. In the enthusiasm of the emergence of cyberculture in the ’80s and ’90s, Latour’s actor-network model provided a theory of translation with which to understand the transformative relations among textual and material mediations, human and non- human actors. Coupled with the insights of earlier nonhuman theo- rists like Walter Benjamin and Marshall McLuhan, actor-network theory helped in the development of theories like remediation, which took up the nonhuman implications of new media technolo- gies, as well as media logics like immediacy, hypermediacy, and Lev Manovich’s database aesthetic. Digital media function as material objects within the world, following Latour’s distinction between intermediaries and mediators, in which mediators are not neutral means of transmission but are actively involved in transforming whatever they mediate. Digital media operate through what Latour characterizes as translation, not by neutrally reproducing mean- ing or information but by actively transforming human and non- human actants, as well as their conceptual and affective states. By the end of the twentieth century, science studies and new media theory each offered different but largely compatible ways to incor- porate a concern for nonhumans into the humanities, to account for the agency of nonhuman actors, events, and mediation.
In any case --to play with sounds like dice-- what a truly simplistic activity! But once one has emerged from this primary field of chance worthless to a musician, the calculation of the aleatory, that is to say stochastics, guarantees first that in a region of precise definition slips will not be made, and then furnishes a powerful method of reasoning and enrichment of sonic processes.
Just as a fractal has the same structure on different scales, a new media object has the same modular structure throughout. Media elements [...] are represented as collections of discrete samples.
... Jarman's film reminds us that our current obsession with images is often implicitly understood in terms of an ocularcentrism that is purported to define selves, networks of forces, ethical relationships, and their media withinvisual economies that conceptually indenture 'life' to the image.
Another [less prominent theme] is the relation between aesthetics and technology. In theorizing this, I reject what I will call instrumentalist and evolutionist perspectives. Both of these conceive of technologies as independent of, or preceding, their cultural and aesthetic uses. Technologies are thus "found objects" brought into a particular aesthetic practive, and they are seen as instrumental in, and central to, generating aesthetic innovation. In the more extended evolutionist view, technological evolution is conceived as an independent variable driving music-historical change [Cutler 1984 (marx), Shepherd 1977 (mcluchan)] Both perspectives fail to examine the actual uses of the technologies, which are often depicted in idealized, unproblematic, and normative ways. By contrast, I examine critically here a culture that itself holds to the evolutionist perspective, and taht is itself involved in the development of high music technologies. I argue that in this culture not only the recourse to technology, but also the injunction to research and produce new technolgnologies as a means of promoting musical innovation, are overdetermined by an aesthetic and philosohpical discourse, that of modernism. This is to question the 'autonomous' motor of technological development at least in relation to this particular discourse....In particular, I offer insight into the materiality and the research culture of advanced computer software, a medium that is overdue for emptirically-grounded sociocultural analysos (see Poster 1990, 149).
Is it not already death at the origin of a life which can defend itself against death only through an economy of death, through deferment, repetition, reserve? For repetition does not happend to an initial impression; its possibility is already there, in the resistance offered the first time by the psychical neurones... the first time of the contact between two forces, repetition has begun. Life is already threatened by the origin of the memory which constitutes it, and by the breaching which it resists, the effraction which it can contain only by repeating it... there is no breaching without a beginning of pain... But beyond a certain quantity, pain, the threatening origin of the psyche, must be deffered, like death, for it can "ruin" psychical "organization."
there could be no archiving without titles (thus without names and without the archontic principle of legitimization, without laws, without criteria of classification and of hierarchization, without order and without order, in the double sense of the word)
Sonification is defined as the use of nonspeech audio to convey information. More specifically, sonification is the transformation of data relations into perceived relations in an acoustic signal for the purposes of facilitating communication or interpretation (Kramer et al. 1999).
I find Manovich’s criterion of narrative too stringent, [...] arrative can be retooled in the light of the database: that the new media open an opportunity for rethink- ing the notion of narrative, rather... Rushdie’s Ocean is itself a database—a database with narratives as data. Ocean fulfills two basic criteria of the database: (1) it is composed of smaller elements, the story currents; and (2) it can be traversed in a mul- tiplicity of ways. ... The elements of the Ocean database are stories. However, according to Manovich, a narrative is already a specific method of navigating a database, in that the shape of the path through the data endows a story with its narrative structure.6 But now the question is more urgent: What are we navigating through so that a story is constructed? What are the elements of a story? For Manovich these elementary particles are images and sounds or linguistic granules. For him a story is constructed from textual components. ... Events, not their descriptions, make a story: the story remains separate from its telling. This is why there can be different versions of the same story. Narrative structure arises from events, agents, locations, and relationships among and between them, the components of a real or imag- ined world described by the narrator’s words or depicted by the narrator’s images. ... My suggestion is that narrative and database are in different categories, so they do not fall into the binary opposition that Manovich asserts.
Scaletti [81] provided a “working definition of sonification” as “a mapping of numerically represented relations in some domain under study to relations in an acoustic domain for the purpose of interpreting, understanding, or communicating relations in the domain under study” [p. 224]. She classified sonification mappings by level of directness: level 0) audification, level 1) parameter mapping, and level 2) a mapping from one parameter to one or more other parameters.
A work of art, therefore , is a complete and closed form in its uniqueness as a balanced organic whole, while at the same time constituting an open product on account of its susceptibility to countless different interprpetations which do not impinge on its unadulterable specificity. Hence every reception of a work of art is both an interpretation and a performance of it, because in every reception the work takes on a fresh perspective for itself. 
 in “Funes the Memorious.” 15 Funes, blessed or cursed by a head injury that enables him to remember every sensation and thought in all its particularity and uniqueness, proposes that each number be assigned a unique, nonsystematic name bearing no relation to the numbers that come before and after it. If embodiment could be articulated separately from the body—an impossibility for several reasons, not least because articulation systematizes and normalizes experiences in the act of naming them—it would be like Funes’s numbers, a froth of discrete utterances registering the continuous and infinite play of difference. [Michel de Certeau:] Embodiment is akin to articulation in that it is inherently performative, subject to individual enactments, and therefore always to some extent improvisational. [...] It is primarily the body that is naturalized within a culture; embodiment becomes naturalized only secondarily through its interactions with concepts of the body. [...] body points toward the normalized and abstract, whereas embodiment refers to the contextual and enacted. What discourse is to the body, instantiated experience is to embodiment. Discourse is associated with inscription, instantiated experience with incorporation. One way to understand the articulation between embodiment and the body, then, is to explore the connection between inscribing and incorporating practices. [...] 

Following Connerton, I mean by an incorporating practice an action that is encoded into bodily memory by repeated performances until it becomes habitual [...] performed certain actions until the keys seem to be extensions of her fingers. [a bodily practice ] Habit is a knowledge and a remembering in the hands and in the body; and in the cultivation of habit it is our body which ‘understands.’” [Gender:] is produced and maintained not only by gendered languages but also by gendered body practices that serve to discipline and incorporate bodies into the complex significations and performances that constitute gender within a given culture. [...] Because incorporating practices are always performative and instantiated, they necessarily contain improvisational elements that are context specific. [Essentialism:] embodiment also does not imply an essentialist self. [Varela, cognitive science ] unified self as an illusion created by heterogeneous subsystems. [...] If embodiment is not essentialist, it is also not algorithmic. [Dreyfus] human behaviors cannot be formalized in a heuristic program for a digital computer because they are embodied. [...] Then, to learn the action so that he can perform it at will, he only has to repeat what he did before. At no point does he have to break down the action into analytical components or explicit instructions. [...] The advantage of this kind of learning is that everything does not need to be specified in advance.  [...]

Here lies the entire modern paradox. If we consider hybrids, we are dealing only with mixtures of nature and culture; if we consider the work of purification, we confront a total separation between nature and culture. [...] These two constitutional guarantees must not be taken separately, as if the first [Boyle's] assured the nonhumanity of Nature and the second [Hobbes'] the humanity of the social sphere. They were created together. They reinforce each other. The first and second guarantees serve as counterweight to one another, as checks and balances. They are nothing but the two branches of a single new government. [...] this is where Iocate the power of the moderns. They have not made Nature; they make Society; they make Nature; they have not made Society; they have not made either, God has made everything; God has made nothing, they have made everything. There is no way we can understand the moderns if we do not see that the four guarantees serve as checks and balances for one another. [...] If it seemed impossible, for so long, to get past Marxism, this was because Marxism interwove the two most powerful resources ever developed for the modern critique, and bound them together for all time (Althuser, L'avenir dure longtemps). (p 36) [...] here, on the left, are things themselves; there, on the right, is the free society of speaking, thinking subjects, values and of signs. Everything happens in the middle, everything passes between the two, everything happens by way of mediation, translation and networks, but this space does not exist, it has no place. It is the unthinkable, the unconscious of the moderns. (p.37) [...] The modern Constitution accelerates or facilitates the deployment of collectives –which differ, as I indicated earlier, from societies made up only of social relations– but does not allow their conceptualization. (p. 43)
Inasmuch as the completed device will be a general-purpose computing machine it should contain certain main organs relating to arithmetic, memory- storage, control and connection with the human operator. It is intended that the machine be fully automatic in character, i.e. independent of the human operator after the computation starts. 
The first motive has been to pursue resea that might provide insight into the sense of crisis in late-twentieth-century composition, and in particular into the crisis of musical modernism....  Central to this was the extension of serialist techniques and their interdependence with a growing resort to electronic media and scientistic theory.... This was the epitome of a high modernism, founded on a belief in the possibility of a total, deep-structural, and scientistic renewal of the grounds of musical progress.... Boulez's thought, his writins, teachings, and polemics have stood as a beacon of certainty... with increased vigor since the early 1970s, there has been a split within the world of serious composition between, loosely, the advocates of scientistic postserialism and its critics and dissenters, the latter the proponents of various forms of postmodernist aesthetic and composition.... [there was the] chronic sense of impasse,the profound doubt and loss of confidence, that have accompanied this split, especially for those many composers who hav experienced a disenchangment with the high-modernist project and with the perceived failures of serialism. The sense of a threat to the continued existence of western art music has, despite certain differences, been widespread in both Europe and the United States.
This research does not deal with nature or knowledge, with things-in­-themselves, but with the way all these things are tied to our collectives and to subjects.  We are talking not about instrumental thought but about the very substance of our societies. [...] None of our studies can re-utilize what the sociologists, the psychologists or the economists tell us about the social context or about the subject in order to apply them to the hard sciences –and this is why I will use the word 'collective' to describe the association of humans and nonhumans and 'society' to designate one part only of our collectives, the divide invented by the social sciences. [...] [We] are not talking about things-in-themselves or about humans-among-themselves .[...] It is true that those who bracket off the external referent –the nature of things– and the speaker –the pragmatic or social context– can talk only about meaning effects and language games. [...] Yet rhetoric, textual strategies, writing, staging, semiotics –all these are really at stake, but in a new form that has a simultaneous impact on the nature of things and on the social context, while it is not reducible to the one or the other. [...] the networks [...] cross the borders of the great fiefdoms of criticism: they are neither objective nor social, nor are they effects of discourse, even though they are real, and collective, and discursive.
Listening opens (itself) up to resonance and [...] resonance opens (itself) up to the self [Resonance] opens to self [the resonant body, and] it opens to the self (to the being just as its being is put into play for itself). [...] being put into play [...], or the referral [renvoi] of a presence to something other than itself [This] is called sense, or meaning [...] Thus, the listener [is] exposed to sense. Musical meaning means, in the end, music itself, the music that, above all, is listened to [s'écoute], whether it is written down or not, and when it is written, from its composition all the way to its execution. It is listened to according to the different possible inflections of expression: it is made to be listened to, but it is first of all, in itself, the listening of self. This profound disposition [...] is a relationship to meaning [...] completely ahead of signification, meaning in its nascent state, in the state of return [...] and hence to the state of return without end, like an echo that continues on its own and that is nothing but this continuance going in a decrescendo, or even in moriendo. To be listening is to be inclined toward the opening of meaning, hence to a slash, a cut in un-sensed indifference. [...] the attack of sense resonates [...] the beginning of sense [...] takes place nowhere but in a sonorous attack: a friction, the pinch or grate of something produced in the throat, a borborygmus, a crackle, a stridency where a eighty, murmuring matter breathes, opened into the division of its resonance. [...] an articulatory or profferatory release.
Every 'container' of information -- be it a library, a building, or a city -- essentially constitutes a dataspace and information architecture of its own...
This new paradigm is defined by the participant-subject (who is subjectified through individual and collective storytelling) and the context- provider (who establishes a framework in which the “participant-subject” may emerge and make a “statement” or “articulation” in concert with other participant-subjects—thus producing collective statements out of individual, nonauthorial voices).
All new media objects, whether created from scratch on computers or converted from analog media sources, are composed of digital code; they are numerical representations.... 1. A new media object can be described formally (mathematically).... 2. A new media object is subject to algorithmic manipulation.
ONe of the inherent characteristics of digital art is the tension between the hierarchical structure of instructions and data sets and the seemingly infinite possibilities for reproducing and reconfiguring the information contained within these structures
Much of the best work being produced today seems to fall between media.... the concept of the separation between media arose in the Renaissance. The idea that a painting is made of paint on canvas or that a sculpture should not be painted seems characteristic of the kind of social thought --categorizing and dividing society into nobility with its various subdivisions, untitled gentry, artisans, serfs and landless workers --witch we call the feudal conception of the Great Chain of Being. This essentially mechanistic approach continued to be relevant throughout the first two industrial revolutions, just concluded, and into the present era of automation, which constitutes, in fact, a third industrial revolution.
[Bakhtin] is one of the first to focus and explore the meaning and structure fo dialogue as a collaborative rather than individual force. He believed that our individual acts of expression --wether visual, written, or oral-- are the result of dynamic, difficult inner struggle, which may sift through one's social knowledge to experiences with others' dialogic interconnection of cooperative exchange.
The hybrid and collaborative nature of art using digital technologies as a medium also questions established practices of institutions suchas museums, funding organizations, and the art world at large. Artists and curators face the difficulties of presenting art forms that often have no preconfigured physical components or have no established connections between the physical and the virtual realm
... data--driven practices have been part of the emerging information society since the nineteenth century( Beniger 1989; Porter 1996; Campbell-Kelly 2003)... 
A confusion between spatial and temporal boundaries has occurred through exposure to high technology, collapsing it and sometimes erasing the conventions that formerly dis- tinguished fantasy from reality. Instead of relying on a sense of reality gained from direct experience and belief in a single authoritative system, we depend on a variety of mediated information. We alternate and are suspended between the reality of daily life and the representation or edited copy of it that we respond to via television. This shifting response has contributed to an assault on the concept of the self as the center of a single reality with a single viewpoint.
R. Buckminster Fuller coined the word ‘tensegrity’ by combining tension and integrity to describe a structural system that is composed of a triangulated tension and compression network. [Donal Ingber] identifies tensegrity as a universal set of building rules that seem to guide the design of organic structures -- from simple carbon compounds to complex cells and tissues. 
listening takes place at the same time as the sonoros event, an arrangement that is clearly distinct from that of vision (for which, incidentally, there is no visual or luminous "event" either, in an entirely identical meaning of the word: visual presence is already there, available, before I see it, whereas sonorous presence arrives–it entails an attack, as musicians and acousticians say). And animal bodies, in general –the human body, in particular– are not gonstructed to interrupt at their leisure the sonorous arrival, as has often been noted. "The ears don't have eyelids" is an old theme that is often repeated.
Fourth and finally, the new period is witnessing the surprising re-emergence of a philosophical aesthetics that seeks to find the ‘specific’ nature of aesthetic experience as such. ... [the artist] is valuing affect and experience rather than interpretation and meaning—rather than contextually grounding and understanding the work and its conditions of possibility.
Thus the happening developed as an intermedium, an uncharted land that lies between collage, music and theater. It is not governed by rules; each work determines its own medium and form according to its needs. 
[Ranciere] proposes ... that the aesthetic and the political occupy different 'communities of sense', and that far from being isolated from other dimensions of thought such as politics, aesthetics must instead be viewed ass simutaneously encompasssing 'both a historically specific mode of identification of art and the forms of visibility and speech in which politics is necessarily staged'. Following Schiller, Ranciere describes the aesthetic experience as one of 'play in which meaning and ense are neither tethered to each other, nor existing in a relationship of domination, thus allowing for the potential of a redistribution of the sensible. Politics and aesthetics are not only ineparable, but the political can be considered a version of an aesthetic mode, not unlike theater, where its subjects are called into being though the partitioning of senses. ... political art in the modern epoc is therefore not a negotiation between art and politics, but a 'third way' that continuously plays 'on the boundary and the absence of boundary beween art and non-art'... [Ranciere charts a] progression from dialectical clash to wards one of hyper-objectification, of 'consensus', making the weakening of the political stage where dispues are visible. [Ranciere] proposes an art that would 'challenge the existing distribution of the real and the fictional', inventing 'new forms of aesthetic distance or indifference' to frame, reshape, and activate alternative political communities of sense.
The poet or novelist now composes on the typewriter. The typewriter fuses    omposition and publication, causing an entirely new attitude to the written and printed word. Composing on the typewriter has altered the forms of the language and of literature in ways best seen in the latter novels of Henry James that were dictated to Miss Theodora Bosanquet, who took them down, not by shorthand, but on a typewriter. Her memoir, Henry James at Work, should have been followed by other studies of how the typewriter has altered English verse and prose, and, indeed, the very mental habits, themselves, of writers. With Henry James, the typewriter had become a confirmed habit by 1907, and his new style developed a sort of free, incantatory quality. His secretary tells of how he found dictating not only easier but more inspiring than composing by hand: 'it all seems to be so much more effectively and unceasingly pulled out of me in speech than in writing,' he told her. Indeed, he became so attached to the sound of his typewriter that, on his deathbed, Henry James called for his Remington to be worked near his bedside.
"pure resonance" [or arch-sonorous, is] the condition [and] the very beginning and opening up of sense, as beyond-sense or sense that goes beyond significationThe body [is] being, wholly (and 'without organs') [Artaud, Deleuze:de-territorialized, without function, purpose, non-instrumental], a resonance chamber or column of beyond-meaning [...]From there, to envisage the 'subject' as that part, of the body, that is listening or vibrates with listening to [...] the beyond-meaning. L'écoute de l'outre-sens [...] listening is listening to something other than sense in its signifying sense. [...] The syntactic without semantics [suggested by Pierre Schaeffer] would be, in language, something that belongs to it just as essentially as semantics, which is its diction. [...] Even when it is written, [sense] has a voice [...] Écrire in its modern conception [Proust, Adorno, Benjamin, Blanchot, Barthes, Derrida's archi-écriture] is nothing other than making sense resound beyond signification, or beyond itself. It is vocalizing a sense. [...] Speaking [...] opens up to its own sense as to the plurality of its possible senses.  [...] the arch-music of that resonance where [speaking] listens to itself, by listening to itself finds itself, and by finding itself deviates from itself in order to resound further away. [...] To say [is always] to dictate, dictare. [...] Writing is also, very literally and even i the sense of an archi-écriture, a voice that resounds. (Here, no doubt, literary writing and musical writing touch each other in some way: from behind, so to speak [...] Perhaps we never listen to anything but the non-coded, what is not yet framed in a system of signifying references, and we never hear [endend] anything but the already coded, which we decode.)
While entendre listens for particular significations or entities in the world, écouter is a form of listening that opens up or exposes itself to sense in Nancy’s meaning of the term.Throughout À l’écoute (2002), translated in English as Listening, Nancy isolates the particular structure of être à l’écoute, which parallels Heidegger’s être-au-monde, as Heidegger’s being-in-the-world is rendered in French, and describes its entailments under two broad headings. First, listening opens the listener not to things signified by sound, but to sound’s sonorous presence: sound spreads and expands through space in a series of rhythmic waves, which reflect and interpenetrate; it surrounds and enters the listener, vibrating their body. Unlike visual objects, it has no hidden face, thus challenging the logic of phenomenological manifestation. It arrives with an attack at the moment that it departs. Nancy describes this ontology of sound – which is nothing more than a structure of infinite referrals and deferrals (see différance) – as ‘resonance’. Écouter, in passing over the things signi ed by sound, is a mode of listening that exposes itself to sense. Much of Listening is given over to describing the tense spacing between sense and signi cation, which is central to Nancy’s account of music. Second, listening is not to simply hear the self, but an ‘approach to the self’. In contrast with phenomenological entendre, a different subject emerges, one that is not thought on the basis of substance (res cogitans). Nancy calls this a ‘resonant subject’ in order to underscore that this subject is, like sound, a structure of in nite referrals and deferrals. The subject is always listening to itself without finding itself given as present.
Gender reality is performative which means, quite simply, that it is real only to the extent that it is performed. [...] The distinction between expression and performativeness is quite crucial, for if gender attributes and acts, the various ways in which a body shows or produces its cultural signification, are performative, then there is no preexisting identity by which an act or attribute might be meassured; there would be no true or false, real or distorted acts of gender, and the postulation of a true gender identity would be revealed as a regulatory fiction [...] As a consequence, gender cannot be understood as a role which either expresses or disguises an interior 'self,' whether that 'self' is conceived as sexed or not. As performance which is performative, gender is an 'act.' broadly construed, which constructs the social fiction of its own psychological interiority.
Force produces meaning (and space) throught the power of "repetition" alone, which inhabits it originarily as its death. This power, that is, this lack of power, which opens and limits the labor of force, institutes translatability, makes possible what we call "language," transforms an absolute idiom into a limit which is always already transgressed: a pure idiom is not language; it becomes so only through repetition; repetition always already divides the point of departure of the first time. ...all that Freud invites to think concerning writing as "breaching" in the psychical repetition of this previously neurological notion: opening up of its own space, effraction, breaking of a path against resistances, rupture and irruption becoming a route (rupta, via rupta), violent inscription of a form, tracing of a difference in a nature or a matter which are conceivable as such only in their opposition to writing... the itinerant work of the trace, producing and following its route, the trace which traces, the trace which breaks open its own path. The metaphor of pathbreaking, so frequently used in Freud's descriptions, is always in communication with the theme of the supplementary delay and with the reconstitution of meaning through deferral, after a mole-like progression, after the subterranean toil of an impression.
In the 1950s, John Cage created a number of installations involving multiple sources of sound. In these sound art installations, spatialization is achieved by having each member of the audience navigate freely through the gallery; in effect, each visitor creates their own performance. For example, Cage’s Imaginary Landscape No. 4 (1951) deploys 12 radio receivers. Williams Mix (1952), realized at the New York studios of Louis and Bebe Barron, featured eight monaural tapes, each playing through its own loudspeaker (Zvonar 2005). Together with David Tudor, Cage realized Variations IV (1965) in which multiple tape machines played back from locations inside and outside a Los Angeles gallery. Other multiple-source installations included Cage’s HPSCHD (1969) and Tudor’s Rainforest (1973), which featured multiple sound transducers in settings in which the audience circulated freely.
Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle is taken to mean that on an elementary level, the physical universe does not exist in a deterministic form, but rather as a collection of probabilities, or potentials. ... the act of observing makes the observer part of the system under study.[...] Uncertainty is thus implicated in the disappearance of the author/observer. 
Databases in themselves are essentially a fairly dull affair, consisting of discrete units that are not necessarily meaningful. The power of databases consists in their relational potential, the possibility of establishing multiple connections between different sets of data and constructing narratives about cultures
The recent rise to prominence of technologies of digitalization has offered possibilities of understanding the image beyond this premise of ocularcentrism, for digital images emphasize the extent to which the indexicalityu of photographic or cinematic images --the sense of an ontological link between a representation and the 'real' objects r actions that it represents --can be produced through manipulation of allgorithms.  ... As a consequence, and despite its apparent ubiquity, 'the image' as a category of analysis remains remarkably resistant to theoretical understanding.
I envision the critical genealogy of gender to rely on a phenomenological set of presuppositions, most important among them the expanded conception of an 'act' which is both socially shared and historically constituted, and which is performative [...] But a critical genealogy needs to be supplemented by a politics of performative gender acts, one which both redescribes existing gender identities and offers a prescriptive view about the kind of gender reality there ought to be. The redescription needs to expose the reifications that tacitly serve as substantial gender cores or identities, and to elucidate both the act and the strategy of disavowal [...] The prescription is invariably more difficult, if only because we ned to think a world in which acts, gestures, the visual body, the clothed body, the various physical attributes usually associated with gender, express nothing. In a sense, the prescription is not utopian, but consists in an imperative to acknowledge the existing complexity of gender which our vocabulary invariably disguises and to bring that complexity into a dramatic cultural interplay without punitive consequences
Lovers form neither a society, nor its negative, nor its assumption [Bataille] represented them [indebted as it is in this respect to a long tradition –perhaps the entire Western tradition of amorous passion] as another society, one that harbors the impossible and communal truth [: ] 'Love unite lovers only in order to expend, to go from pleasure to pleasure, from delight to delight: their society is one of consumption, the inverse of the State's, which is one of acquisition' (O.C. 8:140) [...] love as a refuge or substitute for lost community [On the other hand], 'community' is in fact nothing other than a consumption of the social bond or fabric –but a consumption that occurs in this bond, and in accordance with the sharing of the finitude of singular beings. [...] As lovers, they are exposed in the community [...] The sovereignty of lovers is no doubt nothing other than the ecstasy of the instant; it does not produce a union, it is NOTHING–but this nothing itself is also, in its 'consummation,' a communion. [...] The death of lovers, indeed, exposes them, both between themselves as well as outside of themselves, to community [...] Love [...] exposes the unworking and therefore the incessant incompletion of community. It exposes community at its limit. [...] Lovers expose, at the limit, the exposition of singular beings to one another and the pulse of this exposition: the compearance, the passage, and the divide of sharing. In them, or between them –this is exactly the same thing– ecstasy, joy touches its limit. Lovers touch each other, unlike fellow citizens. [...] Touching [...] is the limit. Touching the limit [...] the lovers, however, defer it [...] Joy self-defers. Lovers know joy in drowning in the instant of intimacy [...] there is an inscription of the communitarian exposition [and] this exposition, as such, can only be inscribed, or can be offered only by way of inscription. It is [...] a matter [...] of the unworking of literature –all unworked 'communication,' literary as well as philosophical, scientific, ethical, aesthetic, and political. [...] 'Literary communism' would be the sharing of the sovereignty that lovers, in their passion, expose to the outside rather than produce [This exposure] does not occur without anguish –nor without joy. But ecstasy comes at a price: at the risk of being nothing more than an erotic or fascist work of death, ecstasy passes through the inscription of finitude and its communication. Which is to say that it also presupposes, necessarily, works [...] But what is inscribed [...] exposes and communicates itself [...]: what is shared is the unworking of works. [...] There is community, there is sharing, and there is the exposition of this limit. Community does not lie beyond the lovers, it does not form a larger circle within which they are contained: it traverses them, in a tremor of 'writing' wherein the literary work mingles with the most simple public exchange of speech. Without such a trait traversing the kiss, sharing it, the kiss is itself as despairing as community is abolished.
[The individual] as its name indicates, it is the atom, the indivisible [...] reveals that it is the abstract result of a decomposition. It is another, and symmetrical, figure of immanence: the absolutely detached for-itself, taken as origin and as certainty. [...] [Its experience is that] the individual can be the origin and the certainty of nothing but its own death. And once immortality has passed into its works, an operative immortality remains its own alienation and renders its death still more strange than the irremediable strangeness that it already 'is.' [...] Bataille constantly experienced this violent logic of being-separated. [...] The rupture [...] which breaks up the totality of things that are [...] and Being [...] (analogous, if not identical, to Heidegger's distinction between the ontical and the ontological) defines a relation to the absolute, imposing on the absolute a relation to its own Being instead of making this Being immanent to the absolute totality of beings. And so, Being 'itself' comes to be defined as relational, as non-absoluteness, and, if you will [...], as community. [...] Ecstasy [...] implies no effusion, and even less some form of effervescent illumination. Strictly speaking, it defines the impossibility [...] of absolute immanence [...] and consequently the impossibility either of an individuality [...] or of a pure collective totality. [...] the question of the community is henceforth inseparable from a question of ecstasy [...] [E]cstasy (community happens to the singular being.
I believe that an active engagement with data models and databases is an important aspect of working in this medium. Through my collaborations with scientists, I have tried to learn as much as possible about the data in order to translate it more effectively. I have also combined sonifications with interviews with scientists, articles, and other textual information in order to add context and meaning to the work. Brett Stalbaum sees the database not as a static subject on which an artist projects meaning, or even as a malleable piece of 'clay' transformed by an artist. He sees it as a 'catalyzing factor in the conversation'. He optimistically states that 'data and control systems provide a channel through which ecosystems are able to express an influence in favor of their own protection'. However, in order for the expression of the data to be heard, he have to be listening.
[any attempt to] rethink the place and the law according to which the archontic becomes instituted [this archontic principle, its authority] can only have grave consequences for a theory of the archive, as well as for its institutional implementation. A science of the archive must include the theory of this institutionalization, that is to say, at once the law which begins by inscribing itself there and of the right which authorizes it. This right imposes or supposes a bundle of limits which have a history, a deconstructable history... This deconstruction in progress concerns, as always, the institution of limits declared to be insurmountable [family, state law, secret/nonsecret, private/public, access rights, reproduction] [Footnote: Of course, the question of a politics of the archive is our permanent orientation here [a question that] runs through the whole of the field and in truth determines politics from top to bottom as res publica. There is no political power without control of the archive, if not of memory. Effective democratization can always be measured by this essential criterion: the participation in and the access to the archive, its constitution, and its interpretation. [Sonia Combe's Fordbidden Archives] about the 'repressed archive' as 'power ... of the state over the historian'... consonant, in a way, with the low tone of our hypothesis, even if this fundamental note, the patriarchive, never covers all the others.
the IBM 701 was, according to IAS engineer Julian Bigelow: “a carbon copy of our machine even down to and including the Williams memory tubes”. According to Dyson, however, Bell Labs by 1951 had become “‘sufficiently interested,’ as Oppenheimer puts it, ‘to want to give the Institute [IAS] $20,000 a year for a period of five years with no strings attached.’” 
It may appear at first sight that data are passive and algorithm is active—... the passive/active distinction is not quite accurate because data do not just exist—they have to be generated.... Texts need to be written, photographs need to be taken, video and audio need to be recorded— or they need to be digitized 
That the present in general is not primal but, rather, reconstituted, that it is not the absolute, wholly living form which constitutes experience, that there is no purity of the living present –such is the theme, formidable for metaphysics, which Freud, in a conceptual scheme unequal to the thing itselfe, would have us pursue.... Since consciousness for Freud is a surface exposed to the external world... we must... understand the possibility of a writing advanced as conscious and as acting in the world (the visible exterior of the graphism, of the literal, of the literal becoming literary, etc.) in terms of the labor of the writing which circulated like psychical energy between the unconscious and the conscious... a space of psychical writing (... of trascendental writing in the evenr that, along with Husserl, we would see the psyche as a region of the world... as the labor of writing erases the trascendental distinction between the origin of the world and Being-in-the-world. Erases it while producing it: the medium of the dialogue and misunderstanding between the Husserlian and Heideggerian concepts of Being-in-the-world.)
We have actually three dimensions in music: horizontal, verticaal, and dynamic swelling or decreasing, I shall add a fourth, sound projection --that feeling that sound is leaving us with no hope of being reflected back, a feeling akin to that aroused by beams of light sent forth by a powerful searchlight --foir the ear as for the eye, that sense of projection, of a journey into space.
From identifying the remains of soldiers, to deciding paternity cases, to eliminating (and often convicting) criminal suspects, DNA testing has become a powerful new weapon in the layer’s arsenal ...The Federal Bureau of Investigation has created a national database of genetic information called the National DNA Index System.

The term 'new media' came into prominence in the mid-1990s, usurping the place of 'multimedia'" in the fields of business and art. Unlike its predecessor, the term 'new media' was not accommodating: it portrayed other media as old or dead; it converged rather than multiplied; it did not efface itself in favor of a happy if redundant plurality. The singular plurality of the phrase ("new media" is a plural noun treated as a singular subject) stemmed from its negative definition: it was not mass media, specifically television. It was fluid, individualized connectivity, a medium to distribute control and freedom. Alghough new media deende d heavily on computerization, new media was not simply "digital media": that i, i was not digitized forms of other media (photography, video, text), but rather an interactive medium or form of distribution as independent as the information it relayed.
world domination over natuer turns against the thinking subject himself; nothing is left of him but that eternally same I think that must accompanuy all myu ideas. Subject and object are both rendered ineffectual. The abstract self, which justifies record-making and systematization, has nothing set ver against it but the abstarct material which possesses no other quality than to be a substrate of such possession. ... The reduction of thought to a mathematical apparatus concelas the sanction of the world as its own yardstick... What is abandoned is the whole claim and approach of knowledge: to comprehend the given as such; nont merely to determine the abstract spatio-temporal relations of the facts which allow them just to be grapsed, but on the contrary to conceive them as the superficies, as mediated conceptual moments which come to fulfillment only in the development of their social, historical, and human significance. The task of cognition does not consist in mere apprehension, classification, and calculation, but in the determinate negation of each im-mediacy.
the point of the Panopticon is to induce the belief that one is constantly observed, without requiring that such actually be the case. Eventually those who are observed will internalize the Panoptic gaze, disciplining their own actions to bring them into line with the expectations of the observers. [...]  new structural features emerge that indicate that leaving embodiment out of account also carries a price. [...] a shift from a consensual relationship of authority to an “informated” relationship in which reified categories of analysis displace personal negotiations. [...]  the Panopticon was never built, Foucault nevertheless argues that it must not be understood as a dream building; it is the diagram of a mechanism of power reduced to its ideal form. [...] positing a body constituted through discursive formations and material practices that erase the contextual enactments that embodiment always entails. [...]  Foucault enacts this assumption within his own discourse by implicitly creating a hierarchy of oppression that rates power over mind as more pernicious than power over body. [...] Thus a system based on corporal punishment is deemed less coercive than a disciplinary society focused on mental representations. This hierarchical ranking is further reinforced in Foucault by romanticizing corporal punishment and eliding the particularities of embodied experience. [...] Foucault delineates the transformations that occurred when corporal punishment gave way to surveillance, but the engine driving these changes remains obscure. [...] Building on Foucault’s work while going beyond it requires understanding how embodiment moves in conjunction with inscription, technology, and ideology. Attentive to discursive constructions, such an analysis would also examine how embodied humans interact with the material conditions in which they are placed. [...] [Normalization:] the body is always normative relative to some set of criteria [...] a body through imaging technologies that create a normalized construct averaged over many data points to give an idealized version of the object in question.  In contrast to the body, embodiment is contextual, enwebbed within the specifics of place, time, physiology and culture that together comprise enactment. [...]  embodiment is the specific instantiation generated from the noise of difference. Relative to the body, embodiment is other and elsewhere, at once excessive and deficient in its infinite variations, particularities, and abnormalities. [...]  Experiences of embodiment, far from existing apart from culture, are always already imbricated within it. Yet because embodiment is individually articulated, there is also at least an incipient tension between it and hegemonic cultural constructs. Embodiment is thus inherently destabilizing with respect to the body, for at any time this tension can widen into a perceived disparity. [...]
We must not stop writing, or letting the singular outline of our being-in-common expose itself [...] Community itself –though it is nothing, it is not a collective subject– [...] never stops, in writing, sharing itself. [...] At every instant singular beings share their limits, share each other on their limits. They escape the relationships of society ('mother' and 'son,' 'author' and 'reader,' 'public figure' and 'private figure,' 'producer' and 'consumer'), but they are in community, and are unworked. [Bataille: 'The desire to communicate is born in me out of a feeling of community binding me to Nietzsche, and not out of an isolated originality; (O.C. 5:39)] We can only go farther.
the sonorous present is the result of space-time: it spreads through space, or rather it opens a space taht is its own, the very spreading out of its resonance, its expansion and its reverberation. This space is immediately omnidimensional and transversate through all spaces: the expansion of sound through obstacles, its property of penetration and ubiquity, has always been noted.... Sound has no hidden face; it is all in front, in back, and outside inside, inside-out in relation to the most general logic of presence as appearing, as phenomenality or as manifestation, and thus as the visible face of a presence subsisting in self. Something of the theoretical and intentional scheme tuned to optics vacillates around it. To listen is to enter that spatiality by which, at the same time, I am penetrated, for it opens up in me as well as around me, and from me as well as toward me: it opens me inside me as well as outside, and it is through such a double, quadruple, or sextuple opening that a "self" can take place. To be listening is to be at the same time outside and inside, to be open from without and from within, hence from one to the other and from one in the other. Listening thus forms the perceptible singularity that bears in the most ostensive way the perceptible or sensitive (aisthetic) condition as such: the wharing of an inside/outside, division and participation, de-connection and contagion. "Here, time becomes space," is sung in Wagner's Parsifal.
In terms of the gaze, the subject is referred back to itself as object. In terms of listening, it is, in a way,  to itself that the subject refers or refers back. Thus, in a certain way there is no relationship between the two. […] In semi-Lacanian terms, the visual is on the side of an imaginary capture (which does not imply that it is reduced to that), while the sonorous is on the side of a symbolic referral/renvoi (which does not imply that it exhausts its amplitude).  […] the visual is tendentially mimetic, and the sonorous tendentially methexic (that is, having to do with participation, sharing, or contagion), which does not mean that these tendencies do not intersect.
Curator Caitlin Jones acknowledges that the systems used by new media fundamentally challenge art institutions in some of the same ways that socially engaged practice does --via understandings of open or closed systems and authorship. 
Documentation of an artist’s life is an investment in the future of the personae that will continue to survive in the form of information. Collecting, storing, and archiving is very much connected to time, to our anxiety over the loss of time, and to the speed at which time travels. We preserve the all-important self in this age of relentless movement by creating a memory bank that testifies to our existence, our unique contribution.
A computer program analyzes aspects of a human improvisor’s performance in real time, using that analysis to guide an automatic composition (or, if you will, improvisation) program that generates both complex responses to the musician’s playing and independent behavior that arises from its own internal processes....
Babbit's 1958 article, "The composer as specialist" (originally entitled "Who cares if you listen?") argued that contemporary music had become such a complex area of theoretical enquiry that it was necessarily unintelligible to the layman. To secure the future evolution of music, it must therefore withdraw from the public and find support and protection, like the sciences, within the universities... [for] Rochberg... ["Music: science vs. humanism",1971] ... the conversion of music into a "new form of applied science" and the missaplication of dehumanized theories and technologies would surely lead to the demise of music as we have known it. Both positions, then, employed a "rhetoric of survival" (McClary 1989, 62) wchich implied that the continuity of western art music was at stake.
The aesthetics of a database are inherently relational, be it on the level of potential (the data container being its carrier) or the actual relationships established by the software ... tracing process—individual, cultural, communicative—in its various forms. ... questioned the conventions of exploring the Web through browsers ... revealed the Internet”s “database architecture” in a new way. ... new media [...] ultimately always is a visualization of data, be it a “closed” database with a preconfigured, limited amount of materials or an open one that organizes real-time data flux. The visualization and “dynamic mapping” of real-time data streams ... projects has been tracing cultural subtexts by means of arranging informa- tion in a database that then become a means of revealing meta-narratives about cultural values and conventions.” ... Art projects frequently apply the principles and logic of the database to existing, often originally analog information
IRCAM embodies Boulez's ambitious vision for advancing the future of music... According to Boulez, the basic aims of IRCAM are to bring music, science, and technology into a new kind of collaborative dialogue in order to produce research and technologies that will aid the process of musical composition.
First, data is sampled, most often at regular intervals, such as the grid of pixels used to represent a digital image. The frequency of sampling is referred to as resolution. Sampling turns continuous data into discrete data [...]. Second, each sample is quantified, that is, it is assigned a numerical value drawn from a defined range (such as 0-255 in the case of an 8-bit greyscale image)
an archive ... cannot be reduced to memory... neither under mnēmē nor under anamnēsis... [however, Freud holds] the technical prosthesis to be a secondary and accessory exteriority... The scene of excavation [in the study of histerya 1896, ] the ecstatic instant... when the very success of the dig must sign the effacement of the archivist" the origin then speaks by itself. The arkhē appears in the nude, without archive. It presents itself and comments on itself by itself. "Stones talk!" In the present. Anamnēsis without hypomnēsis! [the archaeologist] comes to efface itself, it becomes transparent or unessential so as to let the origin present itself in person. Live, without mediation and without delay.
"It is time for the historian to step asside to let the images speak" [Brenner and Yerushalmi] ... it is the sign of a respect before the future to come of the future to come. Thus he is no longer a historian. Good sense tells us ther is no history or archive of the future to come. A historian as such never looks to the future, which in the end does not concern him... is there a historian of the promise, a historian of the first door?
But the instroduction into art of such formal elements as moving a trackball or clicking a mouse to recombine images and texts, moving the body to negotiate a VR environment, and/or posing questions for which there is no substatntive feedback, enhances neither agency nor meaningfulness. Although works employing these limited ranges of physical and mental activities are routinely described as 'interactive', if the works have meaning at all, it resides primarily in artists' decisions,s rather than in participants' agency to shuffle or activate images, sounds, texts, and pattern sequences, and so on. The physical interaction by which viewers can trigger different effects may be pleasing and even surprising, such as playing with a kaleidoscope, but the visual and conceptual stakes of the work still finally reside in the artist's aesthetic choices. Such art, then, may be astonishingly conventional regardless of its technological novelty...
The  concept of the archive shelters itself from this memory which it shelters... it forgets it... arkhē in the physical, historical, or ontological sense... of the commencement... and even earlier, "archive" refers to the arkhē in the nomological sense... of the commandment... the meaning of "archive," its only meaning, comes to it from the Greek arkheion: initially a house, a domicile, an address, the residence of the superior magistrates, the archons, those who commanded... On account of their publicly recognized authority, it is at their home, in that place which is their house ... that official documents are filed.... They have the power to interpret the archives.... this house arrest ... marks the institutional passage from the private to the public... the passage from one institution to another... privileged topology [documents] inhabit this unusual place, this place of election where law and singularity intersect in privilege. At the intersection of the topological and the nomological. [This] topo-nomology [or] archontic dimension of domiciliation [, or] patriarchic function ... must be paired with what we will call the power of consignation[:] asigning residence [and] the act of consigning through gathering together signs.
This is why community cannot arise from the domain of work. One does not produce it, one experiences or one is constituted by it as the experience of finitude. Community understood as a work or through its works would presuppose that the common being, as such, be objectifiable and producible (in sites, persons, buildings, discourses, institutions, symbols: in short, in subjects).
Although harnessing the creative process is stil the artist's essential task, the loss of full authorship control in creating a digital work has become a reality for those artist who seek to create self-generating forms that llow for significant levels of participation and agency.
until quite recently I used to hear it so often in regard to my own works that, as far back as the twenties, I decided to call my music "organized sound" and myself, not a musician, but a "worker in rhythms, frequencies, and intensities." Indeed, to stubbornly conditioned ears, anything new in music has always been called noise. But after all, what is music but organized noises? And a composer, like all artists, is an organizer of disparate elements. Subjectively, noise is any sound one doesn't like.
This raises some of the core issues challenged by 20th century music and 20th century thougth in general: the relationship of the composer oto the audience, for example, or the use of chance and accident in the creation of music; the construction of feedback systems or self-generatiinig and adaptive mechanism that shape sound; the exertion or abdication of control of a musical resul; the modelling of music based on ecosystems and similar complex environments and the setting in motion of events that qustion the definition of music as a cultural pdroduction distinguished from noise or unorganised sound by human agency and intentionality.  In the 21st century ,such ideas have been expanded dramatically by the evolution of the Internet, itself a self-propagating Web lacking any central control. Sound Drifting was a large scale generative sound installation curated by Colin Fallows and Heidi Grundmann for the Ars Ee.lectronica 99 festival. ... "there has been a growing interest in generative systems by artists working with the Internet, especially using sound, but increasingly with the appropriation of games sogtware, search engines and so forth. ... But the most conspicuous cultural use of generative systems has been in the field of music... S.D was about networking, communication and collaboration; about control-sharing between artists, users and machines; about letting go of one's own art and making ecological use of exissting things; about listening to the work without adding to it; ... about the aesthetics of different but connectable sounds, images, texts appearing on line --on air-- on site as fugitive interfaces to a complex, invisible and not yet properly understood system of data processing"
We may compare a man in the process of computing a real number to ;i machine which is only capable of a finite number of conditions q1: q2. .... qI; which will be called " m-configurations ". The machine is supplied with a " t a p e " (the analogue of paper) running through it, and divided into sections (called "squares") each capable of bearing a "symbol". At any moment there is just one square, say the r-th, bearing the symbol <2>(r) which is "in the machine". We may call this square the "scanned square ". The symbol on the scanned square may be called the " scanned symbol". The "scanned symbol" is the only one of which the machine is, so to speak, "directly aware". However, by altering its m-configu- ration the machine can effectively remember some of the symbols which it has "seen" (scanned) previously. The possible behaviour of the machine at any moment is determined by the ra-configuration qn and the scanned symbol S (r). This pair qn, (c) (r) will be called the '' configuration'': thus the configuration determines the possible behaviour of the machine. In some of the configurations in which the scanned square is blank (i.e. bears no symbol) the machine writes down a new symbol on the scanned square: in other configurations it erases the scanned symbol. The machine may also change the square which is being scanned, but only by shifting it one place to right or left. In addition to any of these operations the m-configuration may be changed. Some of the symbols written down will form the sequence of figures which is the decimal of the real number which is being computed. The others are just rough notes to "assist the memory ". It will only be these rough notes which will be liable to erasure.
A number of recent pieces of instrumental music are linked by a common feature: the considerable autonomy left to the individual performer in the way he chooses to play the work. Thus he is not merely free to interpret the composer's instructions following his own discretion (which in fact happens in traditional music), but he must impose his judgement on the form of the piece, as when he decides howw long to hold a note or in what order to group the sounds: all this amounts to an act of improvised creation. Here are some of the best known examples of the process. Klavierstuck XI, by Karlheinz Stockhausen... Luciano Berio's Sequenza for solo flute ... Henri Pousseur['s] Scambi ... Pierre Boulez's Third Sonata for piano ...
"Violin Power" can be characterized as a dynamic 'reading'; of a database -- the video clips randomly accessed on the videodisc - and is precisely what Manovich discusses in relation to the database as a 'new symbolic form' and artistic practive in the 21st century.
Désœuvrement (inoperativity, worklessness, unworking, idleness, inactivity) [in The Inoperative Community], désœuvrement refers to a number of individuals bound together by their shared mortality but having no shared or collective identity. The term originates from an in uential and idiosyncratic reading of G. W. F. Hegel (1770–1831) by Alexandre Kojève (1902–68) [especially its account of the dialectical conflict of master and slave] [T]he temporal work of the dialectic is the transformation of the non-human world into a human world. The Phenomenology narrates this transformation and culminates in the accomplishment of this work and the corresponding end of history. It is the slave that accomplishes this task by choosing a subordinated life of labour over death. The motor of the dialectic is human desire, a negativity set o  against the plenum of being, which transforms the non-human into the human. For Kojève, the his- torical work of humanity is  nished; the life of human beings after history is other than the life of desire’s work. In a later essay, Kojève identi es the anti-heroes of several of Raymond Queneau’s (1903–76) novels – whom he calls ‘aimless rogues [voyous désœuvrés]’ – as exemplary of human life after the closure of history (Kojève 1952) [...] Blanchot’s 1953 récit The One Who Was Standing Apart from Me, where the term désœuvrement appears for the  rst time. However, it is two years later, in The Space of Literature (1955), that the term assumes a prominent place in Blanchot’s discourse. For Blanchot, literature is both made possible and undone by the ‘désœuvrement of being’, the non- conceptual negation that is other than creative or sovereign affrmation; the  gure of Orpheus, who wins back Eurydice on the condition that he refrain from looking at her, dramatises the deathly failure of language that yields the désœuvrement. In his 1969 essay ‘The Absence of the Book’, Blanchot writes, succinctly, ‘to write is to produce désœuvrement’ (Blanchot 1993: 424). [...] Blanchot’s The Unavowable Community (1983), which responded to Nancy’s essay, was published later the same year. In 1986, Nancy published a revised version of his essay in The Inoperative Community, where he also responded to Blanchot. In 2014, Nancy returned to Blanchot’s essay in his La communauté désavouée.
Nancy’s 1983 essay is chie y responsible for making dèsœuvrement a central term in contemporary political philosophy. Following Nancy’s Heideggerian concern with thinking both beyond and within the closure of metaphysics, The Inoperative Community pursues the question of what can be thought after Hegel – what might escape from the work of the dialectic – through a close reading of Bataille. Nancy is largely sympathetic to Bataille, a rming his rejection of the Rousseauistic idea of a lost, immediate community, as well as any nostalgia for such a loss. For both, community is other than both identity and totality; it is a being-together of existences that are at the same time held apart from one another by their own being-toward-death. However, Nancy ultimately distances himself from Bataille, who, he maintains, is still reliant upon a tacit appeal to sub- jectivity. In his response to Nancy, Blanchot is largely sympathetic, but as the title of his essay indicates – replacing désœuvrement with désavouée – he is suspicious of whether unworking itself may harbour too much of the idea of a political project. [...]  Giorgio Agamben (1942–) has also taken up the concept of désœuvrement in dialogue with both Nancy and Blanchot, most notably in Homo Sacer (1995) and The Time that Remains (2005).
A multiscale approach to composition allows for compositional intervention on every time scale. the power of this approach comes from the fahat different temporal zones interconnect. Operations on one time scale generate structures which may be perceived on other time scales.... For some composers, part of the attraction of composing with microsound is the way it blurs the levels of musical structure: 'the task of microcompositional strategies can be described as one of letting global morphological properties of musical structure emerge from the local conditions in the sonic matter (di scipio, 1994)' In an approach that favors 'emergent properties' or second-order sonorities, sound objects emerge from a composer's manipulations of microstructural processes... this is also known as a bottom-up compositional strategy, since the composition takes its shape from microsonic interactions. This stands in contrast to a top-down strategy in which a composer fills in a preplanned form (e.g., sonata). The bottom-up strategy can be fascinating, partly because its results cannot always be predicted in advance. On the other hand, why limit the scope of compositional decisions to a single time scale? To navigate the widest possible zone of creativity, the creative composer wants to float freely across time scale boundaries. To insert, delete, rearrange, or mold sounds on any time scale, this is the multiscale approach to composition.
Community is the sacred [...] the sharing of community [, ] singular beins, and the communication of finitude. [...] Incompletion is its 'principle,' [as] the activity of sharing, the dynamic [...] of an uninterrupted passage through singular ruptures. [...] a workless and inoperative activity. [...] For a complete sharing implies the disappearance of what is shared [...] Community is, in a sense, resistance itself: namely, resistance to immanence. Consequently, community is transcendence: but 'transcendence,' which no longer has any 'sacred' meaning, signifying precisely a resistance to immanence [...] Community is [...] a gift to be renewed and communicated [...] an infinite task at the heart of finitude.
Third, the reconfigured context of contemporary art prompts a thorough reconsideration of the avant-garde.... [Peter Bürger] an avant-garde worth defending is one that seeks to reconnect artistic practices with the lifeworld in order to transform the latter ... [Okwui Enwezor] avant-garde ‘of limited use’ in the present, seeing it as doing ‘little to constitute a space of self- reflexivity that can understand new relations of artistic modernity not founded on Westernism’ ... [Bourriaud] Others have proposed that the avant-garde promise of aesthetic equality has re-emerged in the form of a ‘relational aesthetics’ by artists who make work out of social interactions—work that engages, and is made out of, social communities.... [Ranciere] shifts the focus away from the pursuit of rupture, the new, and progress (whether political or artistic) to the notion that the avant-garde aesthetically anticipates the future by actualising ‘sensible forms and material structures for a life to come’. ... A resurgence of interest (in the art world at least)
in concepts of utopia, community, collaboration, participation, and responsible government, all of which encode a desire for change, has accompanied these new notions of the avant-garde.
I wanted to do away with all of the inherited rules of composition in order to create new ones. But the question that came to my mind at that time [1958] was wether a music could still have meaning even if it was not built on rules of occurence. In other words, void of rules... I had temporarily resolved this problem in creating music uniquely through the help of probability distributions. I say 'temporarily' since each probability function has its own finality and therefore is not a nothing.
Paul's diagnosis is acutely accurate and yet troubling in these contemporary, cultural circmstances in which a loss of the body is oftentimes promoted as a benefit of information technologies. The central artistic, aesthetic focus on the body is in sharp contrast with the scientific and engineering pragmatics that dematerialized the body ofer the course of the invention and development of contemporary information technologies. In a history of cybernetics and information technologies, literary theorist Katherine Hayles shows how the dematerialization and disembodiment of information was seena s a good thing and explicitly pursued as a line of scientific research and development (Hayles 1999).... the aesthetics of information visualization concerns the Body Politic, and the history of information visualization is the history of art and design created to gather together, reflect, and represent the Body Politic. Its history includes the history of public spaces, the arts, and literatures representative or suportive of the Body Politic. (bruno latour 1997)
IN an artwork as ''open system', exchange leads to agency, a place where negtiation takes place as a form of shared authorship and social exchange. IN their essay, Kristine Stiles and Edward Shanken maintain that agency is implicitly the primary goal and meaning of interacitve multimedia art. I f one of the functions of multimedia is agency, then meaning is derived from the queaities that agency obtains in interaction. As the authors put it, 'agency involves the freedom to create, change, and influence institutions and events, or to act as a proxy on behalf of someone else'. Agency, therefore is the importance of each individual voice as part of meaningful social interaction.
Agency repeatedly has been identified as a primary goal of multimedia technology. Interactive technologies and agency have become so closely connected that meaning in multimedia signifies as agency, in so far as meaning derives from the qualities that agency obtains in interaction.MEaning is purposive, entailing intention, aim, and objective result. While meaning is inherernt in the semiotics of the interactive exchange among artist, artwork, and audience, in order to be meaningful, agency and interaction must activate semiotic signification that is literally full of meaning. Interactive multimedia art, therefore, can be meaningful when it enhances the fullness of agency, otherwise meaning is missing in interaction, and meaningfulness is missing in agency.
I suspect, nevertheless, that he was not very capable of thought. To think is to forget differences, to generalize, to abstract.
Structural computer programming, which became a standard in the 1970s, involves writing small and self-sufficient modules (called in different computer languages subroutines, functions, procedures, scripts), which are then assembled into larger programs. Many new media objects are in fact computer programs that follow structural programming style.
... the Western world is imploding. During the mechanical ages we had extended our bodies in space. Today, after more than a century of electric technology, we have extended our central nervous system itself in a global embrace, abolishing both space and time as far as our planet is concerned. Rapidly, we approach the final phase of the extensions of man--the technological simulation of consciousness, when the creative process of knowing will be collectively and corporately extended to the whole of human society, much as we have already extended our senses and our nerves by the various media.
...my model in this regard is the Javanese gamelan ensemble, where a large number of players playing a relatively fixed composition nonetheless have considerable latitude in interpretation, even at primary levels such as pitch, duration and rhythm. Control of musical process is shared among players; inter-player com- munication takes place without necessarily involving a central authority. Local decisions taken by individual players percolate up to the global level, at which the overall form is maintained.
[the Mystic Pad] still participates in Cartesian space and mechanics: natural waxm exteriority of the memory aid.... Far from the machine being a pure absence of spontaneity, its resemblance to the physical apparatus, its existence and its necessity bear witness to the finitude of the mnemic spontaneity which is thus supplemented. The machine –and, consequently, representation– is death and finitude within the psyche [Writing and Difference 227-28; L'ecriture 336-37]
What is at issue here is nothing less than the future.... [two orders of questions, FIRST]: the theoretical exposition of psychoanalisis [concerning] its object, and in particular all that is invested in the representational models of the psychic apparatus as an apparatus for ... our names for as many places of reading and interpretation [the field of these questions is not properly a field]... It is at least possible to ask whether... the structure of the psychic apparatus... resists the evolution of archival techno-science or not. Is the psychic apparatus better represented or is it affected differently by all the technical mechanisms for archivization and for reproduction, for prostheses of so-called live memory...? [SECOND] the archivization of psychoanalysis itself, of its 'life' ['acts'], of its private and public procedures... the content of what is to be archived and the archive itself... In what way has the whole of this field been determined by a state of the technology of communication and of archivization?... [E-mail] would have transformed this history [of psychoanalysis] from top to bottom and in the most initial inside of its production, in its very events... The technical structure of the archiving archive also determines the structure of the archivable content even in its very comming into existence and in its relationship to the future. The archivization produces as much as it records the event. [This is also our political experience of the so-called news media]. Everything remains on its scale. But the example of E-mail is priviledged in my opinion for a more important and obvious reason: because electronic mail today, and even more than fax, is on the way to transforming the entire public and private space of humanity, and first of all the limit between the private, the secrete (private or public), and the public or the phenomenal....
Archival technology ... determines ... the very institution of the archivable event. It conditions not only the form or the structure which prints, but the printed content of the printing: the preassure of the printinc, the impression, before the division between the printed and the printer. This archival technique has commanded that which even in the past instituted and constituted whatever there was as anticipation of the future.... a token of the future... what is no longer archived in the same way is no longer lived in the same way.... Necessity, inside the psyche itself, of a certain outside, of certain borders between insides and outsides. And with this domestic outside... the institution, in sum, of a prosthesis of the inside. We have said "institution" (one could say "erection") so as to mark, right from the originary threshold of this prosthesis, a rupture which is just as originary with nature.
Because digital media are often literally dialogic... the position of 'making' and the relations between artist and audience are altered. Their roles and identities are changed. .. the interface meeting point between artowkr and viewer becomes an interplay between form and dialogue... Such collaborative systems, with their inherent contradictions, are a force for foging new unpredictability in aesthetic territory in a process Bakhtin termed 'the dialogic imagination'. In this process the role of the artist/author changes from one who has total control of the artwork to one who designs a 'framing' or 'ethonographic' structure that invites a wide public to collaborate. Without audience participation, the work is incomplete.
What we encounter in the case of correlationism surprise mode is the specter of paranormal action. Distilled into its most basic form, what is haunting communism is the specter of spectrality itself. Why? Because spectrality is the flavor of the symbiotic real, where everything is what it is, yet nothing coincides exactly with itself. Communist thought needs to embrace the spectral and figure out exactly what comprises it: not spirits in the divine realm, even if that realm has been relocated in the human -that's the concept of Humanity. Spectrality is nonhumans, including the 'nonhuman' aspect of ourselves.
In the digital age, the concept of 'disembodiment' does not only apply to our physical ody but also to notions of the object and materiality in general. Information itself to a large extent seems to have lost its 'body', becoming an abstract 'quelity' that can make a fluid transition between different states of materiality. ... data are not necessarily attached to a specific form of manifestation. Information and data sets are intrinsically virtual, that is, they exist as processes that are not necessarily visible or graspable, such as the transferral and transmission of data via networks. The meaningfulness of data relies on possibilities of filtering the information and creating some form of organizing structure or 'map' -- be it mental or visual -- that can allow for orientation. 
We are en mal d'archive: in need of archives... It is to burn with passion... to have a compulsive, repetitive, and nostalgic desire for the archive, an irrepressible desire to return to the origin, a homesickness, a nostalgia for the return to the most archaic place of absolute commencement.
As defined by Barthes, "The syntagm is a combination of signs, which has space as a support". To use the example of natural language, the speaker produces an utterance by stringing together elements, one after another, in a linear sequence. This is the syntagmatic dimension. Now let us look at the paradigmatic dimension. To continue with the example of the language user, each new element is chosen from a set of other related elements. For instance, all nouns form a set; all synonyms of a particular word form another set. In the original formulation of Saussure, "The units which have something in common are associated in theory and thus form groups within which various relationships can be found". This is the paradigmatic dimension
A view, a navigation, or a search always results in an order... A database, in itself, does not present data: it con- tains data. The data must always be in an arrangement in order to be read. And it must be the arrangement that gives the data its meaning. What can Manovich mean when he says that a database “presents a model of what the world is like”? How would a database have meaning? ... My thesis is that the database form abounds with such expressive possibilities, largely un- explored—for example, in the very fact that a database can be a region of alternative story constructs
Deconstructive strategies opened the way to alternative representations involving social and cultural contexts for ideas. Eurocentric thought assumed a centered, authoritative voice based on a single worldview, structured through domination and transformation of subjected cultures. This attitude now seems outdated in the face of a globalized transnational, information economy. Even the process of analysis itself is suspect.
In the wake of cultural deconstruction and the shifting consciousness of the times, resistance to technology as an integral aspect of art-making and cultural development began to erode. Not only had new media invaded and changed the very fabric of public life by the mid-1970s (see Chapters 4 and 5), but they also began to play an integral part in altering perceptions and attitudes about the structure of art and its production and dissemination. The wider dispersal and dissemination of artistic practices could no longer be contained within the old framework. “The shift from art that could only refer to itself, to an art that could refer to everything, took place almost overnight.”9

Listening is passing over to the register of presence to self [Not] a being-present [...] It is an 'in the presence of' that does not let itself be objectified or projected outward. [...] A present that is not a being [...] but rather a coming and a passing, an extending and a penetrating. Sound essentially comes and expands, or is deferred and transferred. [Sonorous time] is not that of simple succession (corollary of the negative instant). It is a present in waves on a swell, not in a point on a line; it is a time that opens up, that is hollowed out, that is enlarged or ramified, that envelops or separates, that becomes or is turned into a loop, that stretches out or contracts, and so on.
Freud doubtless conceives of the dream as a displacement similar to an original form of writing... the proper sense of the word –a script which is coded and visible "in the world"– would only be the metaphor of psychical writing... it works, no doubt, with a mass of elements which have been codified in the course of an individual or collective history. But in its operations, lexicon, and syntax a purely idiomatic residue is irreducible and is made to bear the burden of interpretation in the communication between unconsciousnesses. The dreamer invents his own grammar. No meaningful material or prerequisite text exists which he might simply use... This limitation is a function of an excessive preoccupation with content, and an insufficient concern for relations, locations, processes, and differences... context... Unconscious experience... produces its own signifiers; does not create them in their materiality, of course, but produces their status-as-meaningful (signifiance).
Before the electric speed and total field, it was not obvious that the medium is the message. The message, it seemed, was the 'content', as people used to ask what a painting was about. Yet they never thought to ask what a melody was about, nor what a house or a dress was about.
Art is a social product.This book attempts to show systematically the vaiuous ways in which the arts can adequately be understood only in a sociological perspective. It argues against the romatinc and mystical notion of art as the creation of 'genius', transcending existence, society and time, and argues that it is rather the complex construction of a number of real, historical factors. ... theories  of the reception of art.... integrated with theories of artistic production... production and consumption must be seen as complementary... A central theme throughtout this book will be the question of creativ ity (ch.1)... opposition of 'structure' and 'creativity' ...nytyak ubterdeoebdebce,,,The  relationship between individiual subject/actors on the one hand, and social/idoelogical/economic structures on the other, can no longer be disposed of in the relatively simple way that either a Weberian or a Durkeimian position proposes. In particular, any humnaistic notion of an 'essential' individual, pre-existing social experience(language, interpersonal relations, ideological influcence and induction, and the socia and material structures underlying all these) must be abandoned... tthe most radically antihumanist positions appear to want to do away with any cateogry of 'subjectivity' or 'agency'.... (ch1, ch6,conclusion)... it is wrong to posit artistic  practice as somehow enbtirely different from any other kind of human practice; otoh, the fact that the problem of subjectivity has been posed most forcefully, and most fully elaborated, in the analysis of culture (as well as in feminist theory and the analysis of patriarchy) means that sociology in general can benefit from the work already done in these areas...
Roland Barthes, “The author is a modern figure . . . the epitome and the culmination of capitalist ideology.”7 The indi- vidualization of the author provided a context for the objectification of the work as both unity and commodity.
sharing comes down to this: what community reveals to me, in presenting to me my birth and my death, is my existence outside myself. [...] Community does not sublate the finitude it exposes. Community itself, in sum, is nothing but this exposition.singularity: being-in-common does not mean a higher form of substance or subject taking charge of the limits of separate individualities. [...] The singular being, which is not the individual, is the finite being. [...] Singularity perhaps does not proceed from anything. It is not a work resulting from an operation. [...] birth, as such, is neither a production nor a self-positing.The 'ground' is itself, through itself and as such, already the finitude of singularities. [...] It is made up only of the network, the interweaving, and the sharing of singularities: Ungrund rather than Abgrund.touch: A singular being does not emerge or rise up against the background of a chaotic, undifferentiated identity of beings, or against the background of their unitary assumption, or that of a becoming, or that of a will. A singular being appears, as finitude itself: at the end (or at the beginning), with the contact of the skin (or the heart) of another singular being, at the confines of the same singularity that is, as such, always other, always shared, always exposed.Community means, consequently, that there is no singular being without another singular being, that there is, therefore, what might be called [...] an originary or ontological 'sociality' [, and it is] (a) not obvious that the community of singularities is limited to 'man' [, and] (b) there is no communion of singularities in a totality superior to them and immanent to their common being.In place of such communion, there is communication. Which is to say, in very precise terms, that finitude itself is nothing; it is neither a ground, nor an essence, nor a substance. But it appears, it presents itself, it exposes itself, and thus it exists as communication. [...] Finitude co-appears or  compears (com-paraît) [...] for finitude always presents itself in being-in-common and as this being itself, and it always presents itself at a hearing [...] Communication consists before all else in this sharing and in this compearance [...] of finitude; that is, in the dislocation and in the interpellation that reveal themselves to be constitutive of being-in-common–precisely inasmuch as being-in-common is not a common being.The finite-being exists first of all according to a division of sites, according to an extension [...] such that each singularity is extended [...] It is not enclosed in a form [...] but it is what it is, singular being (singularity of being), only through its extension, through the areality that above all extroverts it in its very being [...] and that makes it exist only by exposing it to an outsideThis outside is in turn nothing other than the exposition of another areality, of another singularity –the same other.This exposure [...] gives rise [...] to a mutual interprellation of singularities prior to any address in language (though it gives to this latter its first condition of possibility)Finitude compears, that is to say it is exposed: such is the essence of community. [Compearance] consists in the appearance of the between as such: you and I (between us) –a formula in which the and does not imply juxtaposition, but exposition
[epistēmē:] truth as the unity of logos and phonē. Repression, as Freud says..., contains an interior representation, laying out within itself a space of repression.... The relationship between phonē and consciousness [Logo-phonocentrism is] necessarily finite, movement and structure: the history of the possibility of symbolism in general... the history of différance, history as différance which finds in philosophy as epistēmē, in the European form of the metaphysical or onto-theological project, the privileged manifestation, with worldwide dominance, of dissimiulation, of general censorship of the text in general.
A database is relational and nonhierarchical. It is a structure that persists while its content evolves and is displaced. The structure of the database comprises an initial condition for the evolution of a system. Evolution and displacement are fundamental to the dialogic process. Through this process all the possible meanings of stories, statements, images, and words interact, and possibly conflict, to affect and change their future meanings. Collabo- rative systems are dialogic spaces in which the acts of writing, imaging, storytelling, and political statement are a collective production, a process rooted in social interaction and dialogue that produces a narrative without authorial consistency. This notion of a multivocal, but authorless, narrative necessitates a radical rethinking of aesthetics, suggesting the possibility of an aesthetics of “Database.”
“Aesthetics” has traditionally meant “a theory or conception of beauty.”30 A “conception” of the “beauty” of a database is not located in the viewer’s interpretation of a static form but in the dynamics of how a user inflects the database through interaction with its field or frame. A database incorpo- rates contradiction; it is simultaneously recombinant and indexical, precise and scalable, immersive and emergent, homogeneous and heterogeneous. It is a field of coherence and contradiction. The aesthetic dimensions of the database arise when an agent traverses this field of unresolved contradic- tions. The database is comprised of nested subfields, which are activated, and given ontological status by the agent’s trajectory through its field. Con- tinuously emergent ontological states resolve as new subfields from each interaction and are integrated into the field, changing and transforming the content and structure of that field and constituting not an “art object,” but a continuously evolving and fluid system. These are the conditions of pos- sibility of “database aesthetics.”
Open source is a specific term for collaborative production of software, where the source code of how the system work is available for modification by any programmer. However, the collaboration may not be egalitarian; hierarchies of skill and time most certainly apply and are acknowledged by those inside the system. 
“Following art historian Erwin Panofsky’s analysis of linear perspective as a “symbolic form” of the modern age, we may even call database a new symbolic form of a computer age (or, as philoso- pher Jean-François Lyotard called it in his famous 1979 book Postmodern Condition, “computerized society,”2 a new way to structure our experience of ourselves and of the world. Indeed, if, after the death of God (Friedrich Nietzsche), the end of grand Narratives of Enlightenment (Lyotard), and the arrival of the World Wide Web (Tim Berners-Lee), the world appears to us as an endless and unstructured collection of images, texts, and other data records, it is only appropriate that we will be moved to model it as a data- base—but it is also appropriate that we would want to develop the poetics, aesthetics, and ethics of this database.”
Perhaps it is not very contradictory that when a medium becomes a means of depth expeience the old categories of 'classical' and 'popular' or of 'highbrow' and 'lowbrow' no longer obtain. ... When l.p. and hi-fi and stereo arrived, a depth approach to musical experience also came in. Everybody lost his inhibitions about 'highbrow,' and the serious people lost their qualms aobut popular music and culture... 'depth' means 'in interrelation,' not 'in isolation.' Depth means insight, not point of view; and insight is a kind of mental involvement in process that makes the content of the item seem quite secondary. Consciousness itself is an inclusive process not at atll dependent on content. Consciousness does not postulate consciousness of anything in particular.
the hybrid and collaborative nature of art using digital technologies as a medium also questions established practices of institutions such as museums, funding organizations, and the art world at large
As a given temporal duration within the entire performance, 'acts' are a shared experience and 'collective action.' [...] The act that gender is, the act that embodied agents are inasmuch as they dramatically and actively embody and, indeed, wear certain cultural significations, is clearly not one's act alone [not a fully individual matter] The act that one performs, is, in a sense, an act that has been going on before one arrived on the scene. Hence, gender is an act which has been rehearsed [...] which requires individual actors in order to be actualized and reproduced as reality once again. [...] As anthropologist Victor Turner suggests in his studies of ritual social drama, social action requires a performance which is repeated. This repetition is at once a reenactment and reexperiencing of a set of meanings already socially established; it is the mundane and ritualized form of their legitimation. [...] although there are individual bodies that enact these significations by becoming stylized into gendered modes, this 'action' is immediately public as well [...] the performance renders social laws explicit [...] Actors are always already on the stage, within the terms of the performance.
Similarly, a literary or cinematic narrative, anarchitectural plan, and a database each present a different model of what a world is like......... It is this sense of database as a cultural form of its own that I want to address here
Postmodernis as it is generally understood involves a radical break, both with a dominant culture and aesthetic, and with a rather different moment of socioeconomic organization against which its structural novelties and innovations are measured.
Nancy’s task in that book is to think community outside the model of immanentism, that is, outside the ideal of the community as ‘organic communion with its own essence’, where ‘each member identi es himself only through the supplementary mediation of his identi cation with the living body of the community’ (IC, 9). Nancy argues that com- munity is not, and could never have been, the kind of organic whole, fully present to itself, that is posited by the ideal of immanentism. Rather, community is constituted by the interruption of that presence.
The two great legitimizing "myths" or narrative archetypes... disengaged by Lyotard... that of the liberation of humanity and that of the speculative unity of all knowledge... The first –political, militant, activist– [French,] a tradition for which philosophy is already politics. [Second,] the Germanic and Hegelian tradition –a contemplative one, organized around the value of totality rather than of commitment [Habermas]. compare, for example, Gilles Deleuze's influential celebration of schizophrenia... with T. W. Adorno's no less influential and characteristic denunciations of cultural reification and fetishization. The opposition can also be rotated in a psychoanalytical direction, in which case a characteristically French affiramtion of the "decentered subject" or the illusion of the coherent self or ego is set off against the more traditional Frankfurt School defenses of psychic "autonomy."
Automation is information and it not only ends jobs in the world of work, it ends subjects in the world of learning. It does not end the world of learning. The future of work consists of learning a living in the automation age. This is a familiar pattern in electric technology in general. It ends the old dichotomies between culture and technology, between art and commerce, and between work and leisure. Whereas in the mechanical age of fragmentation leisure had been the absence of work, or mere idleness, the reverse is true in the electric age. As the age of information demands the simultaneous use of all our faculties, we discover that we are most at leisure when we are most intensely involved, very much as with the artists in all ages.
The  first explores the openness and immersive resonance of the sonic medium and its relationship to sharing, exposure and exchange, as well as to partitions of sense that are not guided or regulated by any signifying dogma. The second dimension describes the way music can be harnessed to bolster one’s identification with a single subject or signifier for the purposes of a regressive politics. [...]  Nancy’s artwork is made only of the movement of parts.  [...] music harnesses these mobile parts through a special form of ephemerality [...]  a unique theory of resonance, where sound is taken to exemplify complex forms of uncertainty, relationality and plurality alongside a certain multidimensional experience of time, [...] each moment comes into being with an attack. Each musical attack is rhythmically succeeded and penetrated by another, continually deferring the closure of its sense onto other moments, making the musical work into an example of resonance. [...]  the work is not to be understood as an intentional object but as continually held open by each of its parts, allowing its sense to be exposed. [...] the difference between signification and sense. [music that signifies,text-setting,programmatic elements; music that does not signify,  ‘absolute music,’ art of tones] Nancy reformulates this by addressing music as a ‘mode of signification’ and a ‘mode of sensibility’ and argues that music cannot be understood wholly within either mode. [...] at the threshold between sensibility and signification. [‘distance between sound and sense’ (L, 58),] music is an opening or expo- sure to sense. [écouter] deferring and challenging the moment when sense is overlaid with signification. Nancy claims that music is ineffable.[Schopenhauer, Nietzsche, Jankélevitch, Deleuze: music is privileged amongst the arts due to its power to grant direct access to realms of being that are incapable of being articulated in images and words.] danger of ‘oversignifying’ [...] the expansive, sensational, ineffable and immersive qualities of sound can become the tool of a powerful ideology. [...]  music’s intimate relationship with a ect, con- tagion and methexis. [...] These powers allow music to operate as a powerful social force. [...] Like the sublime (or negative theological) aesthetics of music, Nancy sees this political use of music as an imposition of signification (of the community, of the political order) onto music’s sense. [...] music find a way to ‘listen to itself’ (L, xx) , his primary aim is not to advocate or critique any particular kind of music, but rather to describe a mobile, attentive but non-dogmatic practice of listening that allows music to be evoked as an indirect and complex form of open-ended self-relation.
The role of the computer in the shaping of musical time-which must be viewed as being the matter of computer-aided composition-needs to be further worked out, from the temporal behaviour of the partials of a spectrum, to the multiple temporalities involved in a complex sound-object, to the macro-time of the
(causal and/or emergent, lineal and/or non-lineal) global form, without forgetting all the fractional dimensions in between, nor the structural relationships established at each level by interaction with all other levels.
What 'there is' in place of communication is neither the subject nor communal being, but community and sharing. But this still says nothing. Perhaps, in truth, there is nothing to say. Perhaps we should not seek a word or a concept for it, but rather recognize in the thought of community a theoretical excess (or more precisely, an excess in relation to the theoretical) that would oblige us to adopt another praxis of discourse and community [, that by] exhausting itself, can indicate to the community the sovereignty of its sharing. [...] I am trying to indicate, at its limit, an experience –not, perhaps, an experience that we have, but an experience that makes us be. [...] The sharing of community, the mortal truth that we share and that shares us. [...] Nothing has yet been said: we must expose ourselves to what has gone unheard in community.
Is not the most succint definition of modern art that it is art 'beyond the pleasure principle'? We are supposed to enjoy traditional art, it is expected to generate aesthetic pleasure, in contrast to modern art, which causes displeasure --modern art, by definition, hurts. In this precise sense, modern art is sublime: it causes pleasure-in-pain, it produces its effect through its own failure, insofar as it refers to the impossible Things. (footnote: is postmodern art, then, a return to pleasure?)... The traditional Platonic frame of reference is thus turned around: the sciences deal with phenomena, events, appearances; while the arts deal with the hard Real --this 'Real Thing,' the struggle to portay it, is the proper 'object' of art.
There is no archive without a place of consignation, without a technique of repetition, and without a certain exteriority. No archive without outside... without consignation in an external place which assures the possibility of memorization, of repetition, of reproduction, or of reimpression... we must also remember that repetition itself, the logic of repetition, indeed the repetition compulsion, remains, according to Freud, indissociable from the death drive. And thus from destruction. Consequence: right on what permits and conditions archivization, we will [find] what exposes to destruction, in truth what menaces with destruction introducing, a priori, forgetfulness... The archive always works, and a priori, against itself... The death drive is not a principle. It even threatens every principality, every archontic primacy, every archival desire. It is what we will call, later on, le mal d'archive, archive fever.
syntagm is explicit and paradigm is implicit; one is real and the other is imagined. Literary and cinematic narratives work in the same way. Particular words, sentences, shots, and scenes that make up a narrative have a material existence; other elements that form the imaginary world of an author or a particular literary or cinematic style, and that could have appeared instead, exist only virtually. Put differently, the database of choices from which narrative is constructed (the paradigm) is implicit; while the actual narrative (the syntagm) is explicit. New media reverse this relationship. Database (the paradigm) is given material existence, while narrative (the syntagm) is dematerialised. Paradigm is privileged, syntagm is downplayed. Paradigm is real; syntagm, virtual. ... The narrative is constructed by  linking elements of this database in a particular order, that is by designin a trajectory leading from one element to another. On the material level, a narrative is just a set of links; the elements themselves remain stored in the database. Thus the narrative is virtual while the database exists materially.
Algorithms and data struc- tures have a symbiotic relationship. The more complex the data structure of a computer program, the simpler the algorithm needs to be, and vice versa. Together, according to a computer, data structures and algorithms are two halves of the ontology of the world.
The computerization of culture involves the projection of these two fun- damental parts of computer software—and of the computer’s unique ontol- ogy—onto the cultural sphere.
“collaborative systems” to describe public art pro- duced in collaboration with local and online communities and structured on the model of the spatially and temporally distributed dynamics of cel- lular automata. ... For Mikhail Bahktin, meaning is derived from dialogue, which is grounded in a social context.”
“voices of those excluded from “history”—voices “that reveal the details of everyday life—in order to decode the social world.”27 Bahktin’s theory of dialogism assumes that no individ- ual ever writes, or authors, alone.[...] To write and construct new knowledge and meaning, the subject must be a variable—we must engage in a dialogic process where “the words and images of one individual are examined and primarily understood in rela- tionship to the words and images of others.”29 This interaction requires an infrastructure like that of a database.
In his essay “The Author as Producer,” Benjamin pointed out that, with the accessibility and growth of reproduction technologies, everyone can now become a writer, not only through letters to the editor in the daily press but also, now, through publishing opportunities made possible by advances in (electronic) technology. “For as literature gains in breadth what it loses in depth, so the distinction between author and public which the bourgeois press maintains by artificial means, is beginning to disappear.” The new electronic publish- ing technologies27 open communications possibilities to artists which were never before available.
In particular, we believe that histories of technology need to be understood alongside histories of art if there is to be a bridge between the lands. .. The artworks currently or former known as 'new media art' have amassed around them a varied nomenclature, including art & technology, art/sci, computer art, electronic art, digital art, digital media, intermedia, multimedia, tactical media, emerging media, upstart media, variable media, locative media, immersive art, interactive art, and Things That You Plug In. 
Lyotard does indeed characterize one recent innovation in the analysis of science as a view of scientifiv experiments as so many smaller narratives or stories to be worked out. On the other hand, paradoxically, this revival of an essentially narrative view of "truth," and the vitality of small narrative units at work everywhere locally in the present social system, are accompanied by something like a more global or totalizing "crisis" in the narrative function in general, since, as we have seen, the older master-narratives of legitimation no longer function in the service of scientific research [...] This seeming contradiction can be resolved [by positing] their passage underground as it were, their continuing but now unconscious effectivity as a way of "thinking about" and acting in our current situation.
When we raise this question of whether it is possible to compose music with a computer, we may note the following points: (1) Music is a sensible form. It is governerd by laws of organization which permit fairly exact codification (As we shall later note, it has even been claimed that the content of music is nothign but its organization.) From this proposition, it follows that computer-produced music which is "meaningful" is conceivable to the extent to which the laws of musical organization are codifiable.  (2) It is a feature of digital computers that they can be efficiently used to "create a random universe" and to select ordered sets of information from this random universe in accordance with imposed rules, musical or otherwise. (3) Since the process of creative composition can be similarly viewed as an imposition of order upon an infinite ariety of possibilities, an analogy between the tweo processes seems to hold, and the opportunity us affirded for a fairly close approximation of the composing process utilizing a high-speed electronic digital computer. In this context, it should be noted, however, that the composer is traditionally thought of as guided in his choices not only by certain technical rules but also by his "aural sensibility," while the computer would be dependent entirely upon a rationalization and codification of this "aural sensibility." It is desirable to consider briefly how automatic high-speed digital computers operate. These instruments function in principle much as do ordinary desk calculators, but with certain significant differences. Perhaps the most important difference is that a whole set of computing instructions, called a code or computing program, which is entirely expressed in terms of mathematical operations, and which is prepared from a library of instructions called an order code, is placed into a computer prior to the actual process of computation. This eliminates delays resulting from the slowness of the human opertor in handling numbers being produced during the period of actual computation. A second important differenc is that automatic digital computers have what is called a conditional transfer process... it si operations of this tye used repeatedly and sequentially, perhaps more than any other, that permit programs to be written for the computer expressing logical processes of musical composition.... extremely high speed and the ability to react differently to positive and negative numbers, permit the practical exploitation of the so-called "Monte Carlo method" for solving certain types of complex mathematical problems.
“We human beings represent a natural system that evolves progressively from the apparently simple to the very complex [...] Yet our tendency is to look ‘top down’ and put ourselves at the center of the universe”
“Today, because of technological advances, we are instead progressively and collectively experiencing a new way of being and it is not orchestrated from the center by a single authority”
• Sinification. The oldest and simplest technique. Increases in numerical data are mapped to increases in the frequency of a sine-tone. Listeners are able to make relative judgements of more-or-less about the magnitude of a single variable.
• MIDIfication. This common technique is simple to produce, portable and provides an equal pitch scale. The MIDI protocol has a musical metaphor of an orchestra with 127 instruments that play 127 notes at 127 levels of loudness. Categorical changes in the data can be represented by categorical changes in instrument timbre.
• Musicification. Scales and chords, tempo and key changes produce a musical experience. Music has narrative qualities that can convey the narrative phases of a rowing race, for example, the change in arousal and mood from the start, to the middle, to the end. The affective musical dimensions of valence and arousal could provide a basis for affective sonifications.
• Vocalization. Vocal synthesis produces both categori- cal and continuous variations that can represent quan- titative and qualitative data relations. Categorical differences in vowel sounds can distinguish forward from backward acceleration.
• Iconification. Physically inspired acoustic models are selected by metaphorical connotations to the domain of rowing, such as water splashes, wood and metal impacts. Derived information included turning points, zero crossings, thresholds, and rates of change are used to trigger impacts on the simulated models.
• Stream-based. Granular synthesis techniques produce a perceptual figure/ground that groups features from positive acceleration and segregates them from features of negative acceleration.
Data models always contain a layer of mathematical algorithms and concepts ...

• Hierarchical Databases, which arrange the data in hierarchies similar to a tree structure with parent/child relationships.
• Network Databases, which are still close to the hierarchical model but use “sets” to establish a hierarchy that allows children to
have more than one parent and thus establishes many-to-many relationships.
• Relational Databases, the most common form, are based on the research of Dr. E. F. Codd at IBM in the late 1960s and rely on the concept of tables (so-called relations) that store all data. Contrary to hierarchical or network databases, relational ones do not require a close understanding of how exactly information within the database is structured since each table can be identified by a unique name that can be called and found by the database.
• Client/Server Databases, which come in various forms and allow multiple “clients” to remotely and simultaneously access and retrieve information from a database server around the clock.
• Object-Oriented Databases, which are designed to work well with object-oriented programming languages (such Java and C++) and make entries (objects) in the database appear as programming language objects in one or more languages.
An embodied approach to computing acknowledges the importance of the physicality of experience as it falls within the continuum that bridges the physical with the digital.
the elements of a system can be related on two dimensions: syntagmatic and paradigmatic. As defined by Barthes, “The syntagm is a combination of signs, which has space as a support.” “in a linear sequence. “
“In Saussure’s original formulation, “The units which have something in common are associated in theory and thus form groups within which various relationships can be found.... the database of choices from which narrative is constructed (the paradigm) is implicit, while the actual narrative (the syntagm) is explicit.
New media reverses this relationship. Database (the paradigm) is given material existence, while narrative (the syntagm) is dematerialized. Para- digm is privileged; syntagm is downplayed. Paradigm is real; syntagm is vir- tual. ... On the material level, a narrative is just a set of links; the elements themselves remain stored in the database. Thus, the narrative is more virtual than the database itself.16
[writing] 
Psychical content will be represented by a text whose essence is irreducibly graphic. The structure of the psychical apparatus will be represented by a writing machine... we shall have to ask what the imitation, projected and liberated in a machine, of something like psychical writing might mean... what is a text, and what must the psyche be if it can be represented by a text? For if there is neither machine nor text without psychical origin, there is no domain of the psychic without text.
[difference]
 Finally, what must be the relationship between psyche, writing, and spacing for such a metaphoric transition to be possible, not only, nor primarily, within theoretical discourse, but within the history of psyche, text, and technology?
Bourdieu’s work illustrates how embodied knowledge can be structurally elaborate, conceptually coherent and durably installed, without ever having to be cognitively recognized as such. Through observation and repetition, the child attains “a practical mastery of the classificatory schemes which in no way implies symbolic mastery.” [the habitus] learned, perpetuated and changed through embodied practices—should not be thought of as a collection of rules, but as a series of dispositions and inclinations which are at once subject to circumstances and durable enough to pass down through generations. [Descartes upside down] the body exists in space and time and through its interaction with the environment defines the parameters within which the cogitating mind can arrive at its “certainties,” [...] conscious thought becomes as it were the epiphenomenon corresponding to the phenomenal base the body provides [...] Descartes admired in geometry and sought to emulate in philosophy erases context by abstracting experience into generalized patterns, embodiment and especially vision create context by forging connections between instantiated action and environmental conditions. Marking a turn from foundation to flux, [Connerton] there is a performative aspect to rituals, [...] must be enacted to take place [liturgy: verbal, Gestures and movements] Bodily practices have this power because they sediment into habitual actions and movements, sinking below conscious awareness. [...] habits do not occupy conscious thought; they are habitual precisely because they are done more or less automatically, [...] This property of the habitual has political implications. [...] 

Int he computerized paradigm, humans are perceived as information, as evidenced by both the Visible Human Project and the Human Genome Project, or as information-processing entities. In both cases the ":human" is abstracted from the larger social conditions we occupy. If we juxtapose these asumptions with late capitalism, moving away from durable product to information, we can easily translate this to the art world's dematerialization of the object. We could celebrate this event as as victory of conceptiual moevemnts or see it as a dangerous intersection where information about us is being colelcted, stored, and databased without the opportunity for us to choose, or to know, or too accept either its worth or its consequences.
Spivak has argued that feminists need to rely on an operational essentialism, a false ontology of women as a universal in order to advance a feminist political program. She knows that the category of 'women' is not fully expressive, that the multuplicity and discontinuity of the referent mocks and rebels against the univocity of the sign, but suggests it could be used for strategic purposes. Kristeva sugests something similar, I think, when she prescribes that feminists use the category of women as a political tool without attributing ontological integrity to the term, and adds that, strictly speaking,  women cannot be said to exist.[...] It is the presupposition of the category of woman itself that requires a critical genealogy of the complex institutional and discursive means by which it is constituted.
What we encounter here is an example of the general principle of new media: the projection of the ontology of a computer onto culture itself.... The world is reduced to two kinds of software objects that are complemen- tary to each other: data structures and algorithms. 
As the carrier of 'intimate force' and 'intensity', the image, even when musical, choreographic, or cinematic, does not so much 'represent' as 'activate' and 'intensify' representation and its 'touch'. Iut is this 'immaterial'force that lends the image its 'impalpable nature' and that constitutes that which it 'images'. To image sound, in this context, would necessitate activating the intransitive verb favored by Nancy, 'to image' nether 'to illostrate' nor 'to imagine' but 'faire l'image', to lend touch, intensity, and force to what is by definiton incorporeal, to what lies solely neither in material nor in its materialization (127-27).
...the operations of searching, sorting, filtering, indexing and classifying which before were within the strict domain of human intelligence become automated.... the new aesthetic possibilities offered by computer recording are immense and unprecedented .... Godard's History of Cinema (1998) represents an important step towards such database cinema. Godard treats the whole history of cinema as his source material, traversing this database back and forth, like a virtual camera flying over a landscappe made from old media. ,
Singular beings are themselves constituted by sharing, they are disbuted and placed, or rather spaced, by the sharing that makes them others [...] infinitely other for the Subject of their fusion, which is engulfed in the sharing, in the ecstasy of the sharing. [...] These 'places of communication' are no longer places of fusion, even thought in them one passes from one to the other; they are defined and exposed by their dislocation. Thus, the communication of sharing would be this very dis-location.
The premodernist narrator was a mediator rather than author—a shaman whose role was performative rather than creative. The narrator’s story was an aggregate, its origin collective. The shaman/narrator performed for the community narratives belonging to the community. ...There is no fixed relation, no unity, no single author—only stories that continuously unfold to reveal increasingly com- plex topologies. These fluid configurations, the fleeting figures and patterns they reveal, are the concern of ethics and aesthetics in the context of the materiality of informatics... Authorial individuality and author- ity is already “de-centered” by the fragmentation of the social world, by the relativity and relationality of the worldviews of any of its actors. 
The underlying concept nd structure of these visualization projects are the archive and database, which are key elements in mapping and our understanding of digital culture. During the 1990s, digital archives and databases developed into what could be seen as a cultural form. From the digitization of libraries, historical records, and museum collections to data collection for commercial purposees and the INternet as a gigantic data storage and retrieval system, archives and databases have become an essential form of cultural organization and memory. 
In the context of the cultural developments that have emerged as a rsult of these major changes in technological standards, a new conciousness has evolved in which art as an object for inficidual viewing became more and more challenge. Not only had the artwork become immaterial and interactive, but it could be seen or experienced simultaneously by mass audiences in different locations. 
Foucault’s “author function” is a system ofclassificationwherethenameoftheauthor(asopposedto“signer,”“guar- antor,” or “writer”) identifies, elevates, and frames a text.The author function has to do with ownership and transgression. The author functions as the founder of a discourse, the owner of the property of a text, and, as such, an individual subject, both privileged and psychologized, whose biography gives meaning to and takes meaning from the text.
Knowledge, which is power, knows no obstacles: neither in the enslavement of men nor in compliance with the world's rulers. As with all the ends of bourgois economy in the factory and on the battlefield, origin is no bar to the dictates of the entrepeneurs: kings, no less directly than businessmen, control technology; it is as democratic as the economic system with which it is bound up. Technology is the essence of this knoledge. It does not work by concepts and images, by the fortunate insight, but refers to method, the exploitation of others' work, and capital.
We will disarm Heidegger from within. It's not that there is no such thing as world, but that world is always and necessarily incomplete. Worlds are always cheap. And this is because of the special non-explosively holist interconnectedness that is the symbiotic real; and because of what OOO calls 'object withdrawal,' the way in which no access mode whatsoever can totally swallow an entity. 'Withdrawn' doesn't mean empirically shrunken back or moving behind; it means -and this is why I now sometimes say 'open' instead of 'withdrawn'- so in your face that you can't see it.
models for rethinking representation and authorship in the epistemology of autopoiesis, and emergent systems called cellular automata. These models move beyond the interpretation of “uncertainty” as the collapse of the separation between subject and object— the death of the author—and posit multiple differentiations, and proliferating perspectives—emergent dialogism. ...
hypertext --which I am here taking as the convergence of poststructuralist conceptions of textuality and electronic embodiments of it --does do away with ceratin aspects of the authoritativeness and autonomy of the text, and in so doing it does reconceive the figure and function of authorship. 
this period in art we now call the contemporary has been coming together for a while, and it parallels other contemporary hegemonic formations such as globalisation and neoliberalism that come to be fully in place by the late 1980s. By summoning the concept of a hegemonic formation, I mean to signal that I do not think that the consolidation of the contemporary is just a question of periodisation [By 'hegemonic formation' I refer to what Chantal Mouffe describes as 'an ensemble of relatively stable social forms, the materialization of a social articulation in which different social relations react reciprocally either to provide each other with mutual conditions of existence, or at least to neutralize the potentially destructive effects of certain social relations on the reproduction of other such relations(1988)]
If, from Kant to Heidegger, the majowr concern of philosophy has been found in the appearance or manifestation of being, in a 'phenomenology,' the ultimate truth of the phenomenon (as something that appears as precisely distinct as possible from everything that has already appeared and, consequently, too, as something that dissapears), shouldn't truth 'itself,' as transitivity and incessant transition of a continual coming and going, be listened to rather than seen? 
However, there is another lesson to be learned from Libet: the function of blocking as the elementary function of consciousness. [First,] at the level of "theoretical reason," the very strength of consciousness resides in what may appear to be its weakness: in its limitation, in its power of abstraction, of leaving out the wealth of (subliminal) sensory data. In this sense, what we perceive as the most immediate sensual reality is already the result of complex elaboration and judgement, a hypothesis which results from the combination of sensual signals and the matrix of expectations. Secondly, at the level of "practical reason," consciousness, while in no way able to instigate a spontaneous act, can "freely" impede its actualization: it can veto it, say "No!" to a spontaneously emerging tendency. This is where Hegel comes in, with his praise of the infinite negative power of abstraction that pertains to understanding: consciousness is possible only through this loss, this delay with regard to the fullness of immediate experience –a "direct consciousness" would be a kind of claustrophobic horro, like being buried alive with no breathing space. Only through this delay/limitation does the "world" open itself to us: without it, we would be totally suffocated by billions of data with, in a way, no empty breathing space around us, directly part of the world. [FOOTNOTE: ... consciouslness is fundamentally a filtering apparatus which reduces the complexity of the raw Real to a very limited series of features. The role of language is crucial here: language is in itself a machine of "abstraction," transposing the complexity of the perceived real entity into a single feature designated by its symbol. So, instead of dismissing language as a limited medium which necessarily misses the overwhelming complexity of the Real, we should celebrate this infinite power of abstraction, of violently reducing the complexity of the Real, which is the precondition of thought...]
The sound art work now moves to an era of digital hyper-reproducibility There is no longer an original since everything takes place through sampling and duplication. “This scrambling, in the division of roles between production and consumption, creation and reception, at the same time renders fragile two modes of traditional totalization in the artistic field: in intention, the author, synonym of the closure of the work’s meaning; in extension, the work itself, which loses its physical and temporal limits – fantasy rendered to the flux of a universal sound material.”23
Time images that activate modernist cinema are differentiated from movement images which, by their disconnection of time from space, are the hallmark of classic cinema. Time becomes independent of space because th temporal continuity of the reaction time of the body as it responds to a stimulus in the sensory-motor schema is broken. When time and space are split off from the normal linkages that connect events, time and space are reconfigured under the abstract notion of 'any-space-whatever'. Sonsigns and opsigns are the neologistic inventions Deleuze creates to delineate these differences. Both are the result of the creation of a meta-cinema and meta-language with wchich to read and understand it. Sonsigns are pure aural sensations untethered to the physical body, as are opsigns, their visual counterpart. Images freed from the body can dance and wander, no longer adhering to tonal rhythms: "Specular moments give way to the most banal ones without a sense of rational logic... In the end the cinema trips into an ambiguity so overwhelming that the imaginary and real become indiscernible." (Flaxman, 2000,p32)
And for Latour, the distribution of agency across a hetero- geneous network of human and nonhuman actants exploded the fundamental distinction between human science and nonhuman nature that underwrote much of the social science, history, and philosophy of science for much of the twentieth century. Science in Action was a crucial text in spurring actor-network theory to think intensively about the distribution of agency among human and nonhuman actors. 
Visual art remains a materially based process, functioning on the level of affect, not purely semiotics – i.e., a synaesthetic relation is established between work and viewer, which is in excess of visuality. It involves rather enigmatic sensations such as the vibrations of rhythm and spatiality, a sense of scale and volume, of touch and smell, of lightness, stillness, silence or noise, all of which resonate with the body and its reminiscences and operate on the level of "sense" not "meaning."...
In the most general sense of progessive thought, the Enlightenment has always aimed at liberating men from fear and establishing their sovereignty. Yet the fully enlighened earth radiates disaster triumphant. The program of the Enlightenment was the disenchantment of the world; the dissolution of myths and the substitution of knowledge for fancy.
Sound art installations that are set up for weeks at a time blur the boundary between the macro and the supratemporal timescales. Indeed, an algorithmic composition system can spawn non-repeating musical patterns indefinitely, given a sufficiently large parameter space to explore (Collins 2002).
there is an actor whose definition of the world outlines, traces, delineate, limn, describe, shadow forth, inscroll, file, list, record, mark, or tag a trajectory that is called a network. No net exists independently of the very act of tracing it, and no tracing is done by an actor exterior to the net. A network is not a thing but the recorded movement of a thing.
"if it is at all knowable". This ephochal suspense... energy of virtuality [energeia of a dynamis] a coming or an event which one allows or incites to come ... in an experience which is heterogeneous to all taking note, as to any horizon of waiting as such: that is to say, to all stabilizable theorems as such.
 The database in my case is used to navigate the open potentials of poetic expression, dynamic association through human process, and emergent meaning arising out of these processes.
 the poiētic model of the literary work as the auto- production of the subject [...]  artist as creator [...]  the in nite process of Bildung [...] 'always poiesis or, to give at least an equivalent, always production’ (LA, 48–9). [...] subject-as-poiēsis [...] the essence of the work of art and of Romantic politics as the same: as Bildung and Gestaltung [...] The myth-making gesture of poiēsis lies, [...] autopoiēsy – truth producing itself as a literary work – represents at the same time the politi- cal production of the subject of meaning that would take the form of ‘We, the People’ as an autonomous entity [...]Romanticism is the obsession with a poetic making/making poetic of the world. [...] We, on the other hand, have to contend with something quite di erent, which is: being in the world’ (MII, 71). [...]  Praxis is more than just a kind of action; it is rather a being-directed-towards-the-world that, rather than producing the subject that mythologises the world, ‘exscribes’ the singular being into the ‘there’ of the world  [...] action that e ects the agent, not the work, or again as an action that ‘transforms its agent rather than its object or matter’ (FT, 47).[...] Whereas poiēsis is directed toward the object or work that is produced as the telos of the action, praxis is directed toward the doer and has no telos other than the communication of sense. [...] ‘retreat from accomplishment’ [...] praxis frees action from teleological thinking and frees it for the possibility of beginning [...]  an experience of the world as divested of origin and end [...] praxis discloses the ‘thereness’ of the world – an exteriority towards which the self is directed in which the self ek-sists as outside of itself, which prevents any dialectical return-to-itself as an absolute subject. In a word, praxis is directed towards the sense of the world. [...] we enter into the world by suspending all ends, and in doing so we ourselves are exposed to its alterity and our own.[...] the experience of freedom as a decision for existence [...] unworking (désœuvrement) – of the sense of praxis is its implications for man’s productive activities, including technology [...] and art. [...] The praxis of technology transforms labour into the production of sense: an open-ended articulation of discrete spaces – whether they be media technologies, technologies of movement, of habitation, etc. – where communication becomes possible between singular beings who inhabit the same space. [...]  an in nite opening of sense that disrupts all forms of closure (SW, 101–2).
To shuttle back and forth, we rely on the notion of translation, or network. More supple than the notion of system, more historical than the notion of structure, more empirical than the notion of complexity, the idea of network is the Ariadne's thread of these interwoven stories.
my work increasingly became informed by my realization of how databases are shaping our collective reality. As soon as I started exploring the Internet as a creative space in 1993, I was confronted with large sets of data. ... My goal is to give a sense of context that artists respond to by observing, critiquing, and directly engaging the infrastructures of databases in our creative work, exposing the invisiible realm that is rarely connected to the idead of creativity and even less to any kind of aesthetics.
[Rousseau] figured a society that experienced or acknowledged the loss or degradation of a communitarian (and communicative) intimacy –a society producing, of necessity, the solitary figure, but one whose desire and intention was to produce the citizen of a free sovereign community. [Rousseau was] the first thinker of community [...] to experience the question of society as [...] the consciousness of a [...] rupture in this community [...] inherited by [...] Hegel in The Phenomenology of Spirit: the last figure of spirit [...] is that which cleaves community (which for Hegel figures the split in religion). Until this day history has been thought on the basis of a lost community –one to be regained or reconstituted. [...] a lost age [...] played back to itself, through its institutions, its rituals, and its symbols, the representation, indeed the living offering, of its own immanent unity, intimacy, and autonomy. [...] [C]ommunity is not only intimate communication between its members, but also its organic communion with its own essence. It is constituted not only by a fair distribution of tasks and goods, or by a happy equilibrium of forces and authorities: it is made up principally of the sharing, diffusion, or impregnation of an identity by a plurality wherein each member identifies himself only through the supplementary mediation of his identification with the living body of the community [...] fraternity designates community: the model of the family and of love. [...] [T]he nostalgia for a more archaic community that has disappeared, [...] the true consciousness of the loss of community is Christian [...] [C]ommunion takes place, in its principle as in its ends, at the heart of the mystical body of Christ. [...]  Thus, the thought of community or the desire for it might well be nothing other than a belated invention that tried to respond to the harsh reality of modern life: namely, that divinity was withdrawing infinitely from immanence [...] community as the existence of a divine essence [...] was the impossible itself. [...]  Community has not taken place [...] [C]ommunity, far from being what society has crushed or lost, is what happens to us [...] in the wake of society. [...] Nothing, therefore, has been lost [...] We alone are lost, we upon whom the 'social bond' [...] now descends heavily like the net of an economic, technical, political, and cultural snare. Entangled in its meshes, we have wrung for ourselves the phantasms of the lost community.
There is at present no concerted theoretical basis for the study of music as a sociocultural form... In outlining a new approach it is useful, for my purposes, to start with what might be called the critical semiotics of music. ... Laing [1985] expands the semiotics of music in three ways: by extending the semiotic frame to the practices, social and institutional formas, and political economy of punk; by relating its internal signification to wider historical forces; and by analyzing the place of intertextual bricolage in the process of signification. In doing so his approach invokes two semiotic concepts: multitextuality –the analysis of meaning as operating through many simultaneous, juxtaposed, and interrelating symbolic forms or mediatiosn; and intertextuality – the idea that meaning is created by signs referencing other cultural realms through connotation. Laing moves therefore from a formal to a social semiotics... Feld derives from his work a general comparative framework for the sociocultural analysis of music (1984a), which is useful in emphasizing, like Laing, different levels of mediation – material environment, theories, practices, performance rituals – as well as paying attention to power and mystification around music.... these writers explore the various social, cultural, and technological forms that together constitute the complex whole through which music is experienced and has meaning. There are two implications,,, First, their work presages a social semiotics of music, one that stresses the multitextuality of music as culture and the need to analyze its various mediations – aural, visual-textual, technological, social – both in themselves and as an ensemble. Second, they imply that it is only by critically analyzing each level of mediation in this way that it is possible to identify the specific forms of ideology, stratification, and power that inhere in each musical culture.
One surprising conclusion we can draw now is that paranoia is a possibility condition for empathy. It's counterintuitive, but we can only conclude that empathy becomes distorted when it assumes that there is a definite person over there with definite shoes I can definitely walk in. What empathy requires is the energy of solidarity, vibrating away in the basement -I join with you even though I can't check in advance whether there is a you there. 
But as Doublas Browning pointed out nearly forty years ago, the philosophical goal of agency is to function as a locus of morality and individuality:  'the concept of the agent is required in order to allow for the possibility of freedom, communicaion, comprehension, and mystery. Culture in general ... rests upon... agency'.. Agency also has been tied to the execution of volution: 'a person is the agent of an event if and only if there is a description of what s/he did that makes true a sentence that says s/he did it intentionally' (Davidson 1971:46). Agency involves the freedom to create, change, and influence institutions and events, or to act as a proxy on behalf of someone else. In both cases, agency is measured by the ability and the respoinsability to have a meaningful effeecct in a real-world, inter-subjective, social context.
 An actor-network is an entity that does the tracing and the inscribing. It is an ontological definition and not a piece of inert matter in the hands of others, especially of human planners or designers. ... An “actor” in AT is a semiotic definition -an actant-, that is, something that acts or to which activity is granted by others. It implies no special motivation of human individual actors, nor of humans in general. An actant can literally be anything provided it is granted to be the source of an action.  ...There is no model of (human) actor in AT nor any basic list of competences that have to be set at the beginning because the human, the self and the social actor of traditionnal social theory is not on its agenda.
As we have seen, new ,edia art isn't necessarily always immaterial, alghtouhg elements of its computability and connectivity can be invisible to the eye. Similiarly, conceptual and systems of art of the 1960s and 1970s posited that the idea was more important than the form, making the medium of the work often immaterial. One of the links among conceptual art practices of the 1960s, networked and systems-based art practices of the 1970s, telecommunications works of the early 1980s, and Internet-based art of the 1990s is the approach to the question of the dissolution of the autonomy of the art object (Lippard 1973). This approach has then, by extension, had to address a critique of the institutions that present art and that thus precondition its autonomy. The striving toward autonomy is, some argue, ever more prevalent, perhaps even a prerequisite, for works of new media, which exist in a technological context shared by other media and entertainment that have educational and other commecial objectives.  
Each of the words in the term new media art can be hotly contested. To start with art, we do not attempt to define it; rather, we point out that the histories in this book relate not only to art, but also to everyday culture, sociology, politics, commerce, design, science, and technology. As described in this book, new media technologys are used for commerce, education, and social communication as well as for art, and the distinctions between the uses of media in these fields is often blurred. The term new media without art usually refers to commercial broadcast forms such as interactive television; some people in fine art thus classify all new media as outside the bounds of art and instead as forms of broadcast. If net media art is classified not as art, but as technology or science, then there are more subcategories to be explored, such as software or data visualization. 
Historicism contents itself with establishing a causal connection between various moments in history. But no fact that is a cause is for that very reason historical. It became historical posthumously, as it were, through events that may be separated from it by thousands of years. A historian who takes this as his point of departure stops telling the sequence of events like the beads of a rosary. Instead, he graps the constellation which his own era has formed with a definite earlier one. Thus he establishes a conception of the present as the 'time of the now' which is shot through with chips of Messianic time.
Umberto Eco describes the open work: “A work of art is a complete and closed form in its uniqueness as a balanced organic whole, while at the same time constituting an open product on account of its susceptibility to count- less different interpretations which do not impinge on unadulterable spe- cificity. Hence every reception of a work of art is an interpretation and a performance of it,
"an enunciation without utterance." as Bernard Baas says [...] we are once again led toward a radicalization of the "phenomenological voice" that Derrida recognizes in Husserl. [...] what is affected concerns the originarity [...] of a difference [...] that is nothing else [...] but the return to self in which the self is supported [...] only in dehiscence or differencial of self [by faltering, lets itself be supported from outside]. [...] "pure resoncance" (as Bernard Baas calls it) is still a sonority –or, if you prefer, an arch-sonority: [...] a nonperceptible transcendental of signifying sonority [and] a "sonorous materiality, vibration that animates the auditory apparatus as much as the phonatory apparatus, or rather: that seizes all somatic locations where the phenomenal voice resonates [the manifestations of the 'speaking body'" (Baas, De la chose à l'object p.217-218). Thus, transcendental resonance is also incorporated [...] The possibility of sense is identified with the possibility of resonance [or:] the transcendental condition of significance [...] is overlaid with the resonant possibility of sound. [...] Sense is first of all the rebound of sound. [It] consists first of all, not in a signifying intention but rather in a listening, where only resonance comes to resound .
Building on the semiotic turn, AT first brackets out society and nature to consider only meaning-productions; then breaking with the limits of semiotics without losing its tool box, it grants activity to the semiotic actors turning them into a new ontological hybrid, world making entities; by doing such a counter-copernican revolution it builds a completely empty frame for describing how any entity builds its world; finally, it retains from the descriptive project only a very few terms -its infralanguage- which are just enough to sail in between frames of reference and grants back to the actors themselves the ability to build precise accounts of one another by the very way they behave; the goal building of an overarching explanation -that is, for AT, a centre of calculation that would hold or replace or ponctualise all the others- is displaced by the search for ex- plications that is for the deployment of as many elements as possible accounted for through as many metalanguages as possible.
For the Enlightenment, whatever does not conform to the rule of computation and utility is suspect. So long as it can develop undisturbed by any outward repression, there is no holding it. In the process, it treats its own ideas of human rights exactly as it does the older universals. Every spiritual resistance it encounters serves merely to increase its strength (Hegel).
The nonhuman turn, on the other hand, insists (to paraphrase Latour) that “we have never been human” but that the human has always coevolved, coexisted, or collaborated with the nonhuman—and that the human is characterized precisely by this indistinction from the nonhuman.... Simondon’s argument for the coevolution of humans and technology has been restated from a different perspective by philosopher and cognitive scientist Andy Clark, who characterizes humans as “natural-born cyborgs” in order to underscore how (at least since the invention of language) human cognition has been interdependent with embodied, non-human technologies.
Sound tracks have become integral to most of such new media works and introduce a new flux and momentum to them as a vibratory, immaterial, shimmering element that may integrate many different connected elements within contemporary installation projects.
The foundation of the aesthetic experience is the recognition of (symmetrical, clear, etc.) sensual patterns that, originally, enabled us to orient ourselves in our environs.... How can the pleasure experience, which was originally a mere by-product of geal-oriented activity aiming at our survival (that is to say, a signal that this goal was achieved), turn into an aim in itself? ... the fact that sexuality can spill over and function as a metaphorical content of every (other) human activity is not a sign of its power but, on the contrary, a sign of its impotence, failure, inherent blockage... the uniqueness of humankind consist[s] in how these indicators --the pleasure we take in dealing with them-- turn into an end in themselves [and, ultimately], biological survival itself is reduced to a mere means, to the foundation for the development of 'higher activities'
Deleuze makes another distinction in his taxonomy of film history, as he takes his idea of modern and classic cinema one step further and distinguishes between 'organic' and 'crystalline' cinema. He builds this other level of distinguion though his idea of a crysstal image of which opsigns are silvers. A crystal imiage is the point of indiscernibility when there is a 'coalescence of the actual image and the virtual image, the image with two sides, actual adn virtual at the same time' (deleuze, cinema2,p69). The crystalline regime is made up of these kinds of images and is distinguished from its ontological counterpart called organic cinema, from which it emerges in three ways. ... evokes images as descriptions without their normal linkages to a motor event that would usually follow .... confouonds the relation between the real and the imaginary and instead invokes the terms actual and virtual. ... develeops narration out of anomalies, irregultarities, and false continuity rather than the field of forces, oppositions, and tensions that normally characterize the organic regime.
I examine authorship in relation not only to musical composition at IRCAM but also to computer technologies, and insights are generated into each. At one level these concern the different kinds of collaborative labor and the social relations of each area of cultural production, illuminating issues such s the pleasures and tensions of collaborative cultural production and related questions of intellectual property
For Bacon as for Luther, "knowledge that tendeth but to satisfaction, is but as a courtesan, which is for pleasure, and not for fruit or generation." Not "satisfaction, which men call truth," but "operation," "to do the business," is the "right mark"... There is to be no mystery –which means, too, no wish to reveal mystery. The disenchantment of the world is the extirpation of animism.... The world becomes chaos, and synthesis salvation. There is said to be no difference between the totemic animal, the dreams of a ghost-seer, and the absolute Idea. On the road to modern science, men renounce any claim to meaning.They substitute formula for concept, rule and probability for cause and motive.
“Bio molecular, cellular, gene and genome studies have become major research areas that have already influenced our lives and have the potential to completely change our perception of ourselves and how we function in society.” 
"this 'I' which approaches the text is already itself a plurality of other texts, of codes which are infinite"(S/Z,10). Barthes's point ... appears much clearer and more obviou s from the vantage point of intertextuality. ... Hypertext embodies many of the ideas and attitueds proposed by Barthes, Derrida, Foucault and others. ;... For all these authors, the self takes the form of a decentered ... networks of codes that, on another level, also serves as a node within another centerless network
Dialogism is the characteristic epistemological mode of a world dominated by heteroglossia. Everything means, is under- stood, as a part of a greater whole-there is a constant interaction between meanings, all of which have the potential of conditioning others. Which will affect the other, how it will do so and in what degree is what is actually settled at the moment of utterance. This dialogic imperative, mandated by the pre-existence of the language world relative to any of its current inhabitants, insures that there can be no actual monologue. One may, like a primitive tribe that knows only its own limits, be deluded into thinking there is one language, or one may, as grammarians, certain political figures and normative framers of "literary languages" do, seek in a sophisticated way to achieve a unitary language. In both cases the unitariness is relative to the overpowering force of heteroglossia, and thus dialogism.
The numerical coding of media and the modular structure of a media object allow for the automation of many operations involved in media creation, manipulation, and access. Thus human intentionality can be removed from the creative process, at least in part.
Tools now aid composers in the deconstruction of digital files: exploring the sonic possibilities of a Photoshop file that displays an image of a flower, trawling word processning documents in search of coherent bytes of sound, using noise-reduction sofware to analyze and process audio in ways that the software designer never intended. Any selection of algorithms can be interfaced to pass data back and forth, mapping effortlessly from one dimension into another. In this way, all data can become fodder for sonic experimentation.
For new media, the political, social and commercial structures of 'work' are often based on systems that differ from old understandings. At the time of the Industrial Revolution, the cooperative movement stood as a clear alternative to capitalism and to the company store. For socially engaged art, collaborative practices are clearly challenging individual authorship, the art museum, and art audiences. 
With digital technologies we no longer have a spatial fixed-point perspective; with morphing, we no longer have fixed spatial or temporal relationships; reality can now be paralleled by a completely simulated (virtual) one. Digitization has destroyed the faith in the truthfulness in representation.
Cultural conditions have dramatically changed. Technologically based art does not just change the kind of art that is made and our relationship to it, but it changes the nature of human perception. Technological instrumentation makes it possible to see things that could not have been seen before and to see them in a way in which they could never before have been seen. Just as photography and the cinema opened the world to an expanded conscious- ness of the close-up, the far distant view, and the psychological, through editing and out-of- context views, so has the use of digital technologies allowed for the complete restructuring of the visual, opening to new territory of completely simulated, or virtual, reality with entirely different space relations. In new forms of technological representation, such as database ones, the technological tool is integral to the form, content, context, and process of the art, not just a way of transmitting it. Interactive digital media are international, inviting participa- tion from individuals globally. Every desktop is now a printing press. Digitized images are set immediately into the electronic page setup for printing in millions of copies. Computer networks can act as broadcasting stations. We are only beginning to realize the implications for education and community relations, using powers at our fingertips. “The world has . . . become too small for an ivory tower mentality.”7
Bourriaud argues that art of the 1990s takes as its theoretical horizon "the realm of human interactions and its social context, rather than the assertion of an independent and private symbolic space" (ra,.p14). ... relational art works seek to establish intersubjective encounters(be these literal or potential) in which meaning is elaborated (p.18) rather than in the privatized space of individual consumption. The implication is that this work inverses the goals of Greenbergian modernism. Rather than a discrete, portable, autonomous work of art that transcends its context, relational art is entirely beholden to the contingencies of its environment and audience. Moreover, this audience is envisaged as a community: rather than a one-to-one relationship between work of art and viewer, relational art sets up situations in which viewers are not just addressed as as collective, social entity, but are actually given the wherewithal to create a community, however temporary or utopian this may be.
the archive always holds a problem for translation. With the irreplaceable singularity of a document to interpret, to repeat, to reproduce, but each time in its original uniqueness, an archive ought to be idiomatic, and thus at once offered and unavailable for translation, open to and shielded from technical iteration and reproduction... 
the archontic principle of the archive, which in itself presupposes not the originary arkhē, but the nomological arkhē of the law, of institution, of domiciliation, of filiation. No one has analyzed, that is to say, deconstructed, the authority of the archongic principle better than [Freud]. No one has shown how this archontic, that is, paternal and patriarchic, principle only posited itself to repeat itself and returned to re-posit itself only in the parricide.
For Nancy, the Heideggerian ‘work of art’ is able to present a uni ed picture that may be used for political purposes, suggested by Heidegger in ‘The Origin of the Work of Art’ (1935–6). For Heidegger the work is only what it is in the world that it opens, whereas Nancy is seeking a ‘workless’ or ‘unworking’ work (désœuvrement), a work that refuses to create itself as a total work (œuvre). Hence, Nancy proposes an artwork that would o er itself as a permanently open whole, the concept of art remaining undecided and lacking anything that might unify it.
all these [Freudian] concepts [like repression?] belong to the history of metaphysics... the system of logocentric repression which was organized in order to exclude... the body of the written trace as a didactic and technical metaphor, as servile matter or excrement... logocentric repression permits an understanding of how an original and individual repression became possible within the horizon of a culture and a historical structure of belonging.... The necessity of an explicit question concerning the meaning of presence in general... the epoch of presence, in the Heideggerian sense, and its central support, from Decartes to Hegel: presence as consciousness, self-presence conceived within the opposition of consciousness to unconsciousness. The concepts of archi-trace and of différance: why they are neither Freudian nor Heideggerian... Différance, the pre-opening of the ontic-ontological difference... the difference between the pleasure principle and the reality principle, for example, is not uniquely, not primarily, a distinction, an exteriority, but rather the original possibility, within life, of the detour, of defferal... and the original possibility of the economy of death. Différance and identity. Différance within the economy of the same. The necessity of withdrawing the concepts of trace and of différance from all classical conceptual oppositions. Necessity of the concept of archi-trace and the erasure of the archia. This erasure, which maintains the legibility of the archia, signifies a conceived relationship of belonging to the history of metaphisics.
La figura del compositor como parte del modelo, vertical y unidireccional, compositor -> partitura -> interprete -> instrumento -> audiencia pertenece a las prácticas, principalmente europeas, de música preelectricidad. En esta tradición musical, la teoría de la música y los instrumentos usados son vistos como límites a la mente creativa. Con la llegada de los medios electrónicos, encarnada inicialmente por Leon Théremin y luego por las corrientes de música concreta en Francia y electrónica en Alemania, músicos y compositores diversos interpretan los cambios que se dan en los medios de producción y transmisión de música como una liberación de los límites físicos de los materiales con que se fabrican los instrumentos, así como de las habilidades corporales de los ejecutantes humanos. Los cambios que introducen estos medios... no son cosméticos sino que transforman la forma en la que componemos a tal punto que el diseño de los medios o tecnologías que utilizamos para componer o para los que componemos determina nuestras composiciones. 
Plato banned poetry with the same gesture that positivism used against the theory of ideas (Ideenlehre)... Art must first prove its utility [FOOTNOTE: Cf. Plato, Republic, Book X] For art, as for the Jews, imitation is proscribed. REason and religion deprecate and condemn the principle of magic enchantment. Even in resigned self-distancing from real existence, as art, it remains dishonest; its practicioners become travelers, latterday nomads who find no abiding home under the established what-has-come-to-be. Nature must no longer be influencede by approximation, but mastered by labor. The work of art still has something in common with enchantment: it posits its own, self-enclosed area, which is withdrawn from the context of profane existence, and in which special laws apply. Just as in the ceremony the magician first of all marked out the limits of the area where the sacred powers were to come into play, so every work of art describes its own circumference which closes it off from actuality. This very renunciation of influence, which distinguishes art from magical sympathy, retains the magic heritage all the more surely. It places the pure image in contrast to animate existance, the elements of which it absorbs. It is in the nature of the work of art, or aesthetic semblance, to be what the new, terrifying occurrence became in the primitive's magic: the appearance of the whole in the particular. IN the work of art that duplication still occurs by which the thing appeared as spiritual, as the expression of mana. This constitutes its aura. As an expression of totality art lays claim to the dignity of the absolute.
To conceptualize this particular stage of our technogenesis -and the particular technical expansion of prepersonal bodily function that digital technologies facilitate- we will need to draw erxtensively on philosophical and psychological exploration of the 'body schema' and the skin as a generalized sense organ. We will also need to develop a fundamentally or 'essentially' technical phenomenology of the body, one that takes as its primary task the elucidation of the originary technical basis of embodied experience (part 1)... The discussion begins with twho crucial and interrelated concepts of Merleau-Ponty's Phenomenology of perception -namely, the absolute priority of the phenomenal body (largely akin to the operational perspective of the organism) and the primary role accorded bodily motility (i.e., the body schema) in the constitution of a systemic coupling between organisma and environment. The argument ultimately aims to conceptualize a technics on the basis of (and adequate to) the chiasmic correlation of being and world that forms the heart of Merleau-Ponty's final unfinished project, as documented particularly in The Visible and the Invisible and Nature. In contrast to the clearly delineated (and still subordinate or secondary) dimension of technics associated with Merleau-Ponty's exploration of motor intentionality in the Phenomenology (a dimension famously telescoped in the example fo the blindman's stick), such a technics must be capable of supporting -of being- the medium of human individual and collective individuation.
The telegraph translated writing into sound, a fact directly related to the origin of both the telephone and phonograph. With tthe telegraph, the only walls left are the vernacular walls that the photograph and movie and wirephoto overleap so easily. The electrification of writing was almost as big a step into the nonvisual and auditory space as the later steps soon taken by telephone, radio, and TV. 
The telephone: speech without walls.
The phonograph: music without walls.
The photograph: museum without walls.
The electric light: space without walls.
The movie, radio, and TV: classroom without walls.
Man the food-gatherer reappears incongruously as information-gatherer. In this role, electronic man is no less a nomad than his paleolithic ancestors.
Haraway of- fered the ironic figure of the cyborg, a hybrid of human and non- human, as a potential replacement for the human-centered figures of “woman” and “labor” that underlay the political critiques that late twentieth-century socialist-feminism often directed at infor- matics and technoscience. Haraway’s controversial conclusion that she would “rather be a cyborg than a goddess” was meant to counter a conception of woman that excluded the nonhuman from its pur- view.
It is also a function of meaning, and is organized according to gestaltist laws and contextual determinations. Play a stream of random audio and visual events, and you will find that certain ones will come together through synchresis and other combinations will not.
Postmodernism is a symptom, not a fresh solution. It lives under the modern Constitution, but it no longer believes in the guarantees the Constitution offers. It senses that something has gone awry in the modern critique, but it is not able to do anything but prolong that critique, though without believing in its foundations (Lyotard, Postmodern Condition). Instead of moving on the empirical studies of the networks that give meaning to the work of purification it denounces, postmodernism rejects all empirical work as illusory and deceptively scientistic (Baudrillard, 1992) [...] A different solution appears as soon as we follow both the official Constitution and what it forbids or allows, as soon as we study in detail the work of production of hybrids and the work of elimination of these same hybrids. We then discover that we have never been modern in the sense of the Constitution [...] No one has ever been modern. Modernity has never begund. There has never been a modern world. [...] This retrospective attitude, which deploys instead of unveiling, adds instead of subtracting, fraternizes instead of denouncing, sorts out instead of debunking, I characterize as nonmodern (or amodern). A nonmodern is anyone who takes simultaneously into account the moderns' Constitution and the population of hybrids that that Constitution rejects and allows to proliferate. [...]
While for some decades it has been an article of postrsructuralist faith to interrogate the 'author' as construct, this has not been supported by much empirical or historical research. Here I examine the construction of authorship at many levels: not only the strategies by which individuals become invested with the extraordinary charisma of the creative artist, the motivations, contestations and contradictions of the process, and how the discourse of authorship is used in strategies of individual and institutional legitimation, but also the ways in which the process is subjectively internalized, the ambivalence to which this gives rise, and the internal violence that may be involved in overcoming this ambivalence.
The phenomenological theory of 'acts' [Husserl, Merleau-Ponty, Herbert Mead] in which social agents constitute social reality through language, gesture, and all manner of symbolic social sign. [Gender] is an identity tenuously constituted in time –an identity instituted through a stylized repetition of acts. Further, gender is instituted through the stylization of the body and, hence, must be understood as the mundane way in which bodily gestures, movements, and enactments of various kinds constitute the illusion of an abiding gendered self. [social temporarlity]: if gender is instituted through acts which are internally discontinuous, then the appearance of substance is precisely that, a constructed identity, a performative accomplishment which the mundane social audience, including the actors themselves, come to believe and to perform in the mode of belief. [...] The possibilities of gender transformation are to be found in the arbitrary relation between such acts, in the possibility of a different sort of repeating, in the breaking or subversive repetition of that style.
...the spectator realizes with surprise that what caught his attention is no just the animation of the images that he was used to considering immobile. It is, rather, a transformation that concerns the very nature of fthose images... And because the real paradigm of life in the modern era is not movement but time, this means that there is a life of images that it is our task to understand. As the author himself states [Bill Viola]... "the essence of the visual medium is time ... images live within us. At this moment we each have an extenssive visual world inside of us ... We are living databases of images -collectors of images- and these images do not stop transforming and growing once they get inside us"
The structure of the archive is spectral. It is spectral a priori: neither present nor absent "in the flesh," neither visible nor invisible, a trace always referring to another whose eyes can never be met, no more than those of Hamlet's father, thanks to the possibility of a visor. Also, the spectral motif stages this disseminating fission from which the archontic principle, and the concept of the archive, and the concept in general suffer, from the principle on... [Addressing a phantom] is a law of economy, once again, a law of the oikos, the transaction of signs and values, but also of some familial domesticity: haunting implies places, a habitation, and always a haunted house... there is a truth of delusion, a truth of insanity or of hauntedness. Analogous to that "historical truth" which Freud distinguishes, notably in Moses, from the "material truth," this truth is repressed or supressed. But it resists and returns, as such, as the spectral truth of delusion or of hauntedness. It returns, it belongs, it comes down to spectral truth. Delusion or insanity, hauntedness is not only haunted by this or that ghost, Gradiva for example, but by the specter of the truth which has been thus repressed. The truth is spectral, and this is its part of truth which is irreducible by explanation... To decipher the archive of this score, to read its truth right on the monument of this portion, one must take into account a prosthesis, this 
"distorted substitute."... the species, the aspect, the specter, this is what remains to be seen with the truth, what is needed to speculate with the true of that truth. 
Database becomes the center of the creative process in the computer age. ... With new media, the content of the work and the interface becomes separate. ... The new media object consists of one or more interfaces to a database of multimedia material. ... However, in the world of new media, the word “narrative” is often used as an all-inclusive term to cover up the fact that we have not yet developed a language to describe these new strange objects. ... In new media, the database supports a variety of cultural forms that range from direct translation (a database stays a database) to a form whose logic is the opposite of the logic of the material form itself—a narrative. More pre- cisely, a database can support narrative, but there is nothing in the logic of the medium itself that would foster its generation. It is not surprising, then, that databases occupy a significant, if not the largest, territory of the new media landscape. What is more surprising is why the other end of the spec- trum—narratives—still exists in new media.
"in a relationship only with an indirect image *of* rime (rependent on montage), the pure optical and suond image, its opsigns and sonsigns, are directly connected to a time-image, which has subordinated movement... movement is the perspective of time" (22). Rather than insisting tha the sonsisgn be liberated from the image, Deleuze suggests that the cinematic sonsign is juxtaposed or enfolded via irrational cuts with the pure optical sign that serves a corollary function of imaging intensity. A pure optical and sound image "makes us graps, it is supposed to make us graps, something intolerable and unbearable . .. It is a matter of something too powerful, or too unjust, but sometimes also too beautiful, and which henceforth outstrips our sensory-motor capacities: (19). So instead of needing to liberate sound from image in the intermedia environment, we could take the lead from Deleuze to dwqell on the folding of image into sound, as the aural horizon of intensity itself. Indeed, the irrational interstice, that is, the irrational cut between two images, the visual and the sonorous, actually reinforces what Deleuze calls "the victory of the audio-visual (253)":. Crucial to the irrational relation of the ttwo disssymetrical trajectories of the visual nand the sonorous, however, is Deleuze's insistence that 'the audio-visual image is not a whole, it is a 'fusion of the tear' (268).
Regardless of the pervasive character of patriarchy and the prevalence of sexual difference as an operative cultural distinction, there is nothing about a binary gender system that is given [...] Gender is not passively scripted on the body, and neither is it determined by nature, language, the symbolic or the overwhelming history of patriarchy. Gender is what is put on, invariably, under constraint, daily and incessantly, with anxiety and pleasure, but if this continuous act is mistaken for a natural or linguistic given, power is relinquished to expand the cultural field bodily through subversive performances of various kinds.
along with Nicholas Mosley, we may ask: “Might there not be an anthropology in which the observer is seen as part of what he observes ... Database aesthetics can provide a free space, a field for dynamic interaction. But this field, unfortunately, may be framed and the data may be organized around existing narratives of cultural domination and patterns of objectification. ... the aesthetics of the database must be practiced or applied in conjunction with a commitment to cultural democ- racy and linked to an “aesthetics of dignity."
the injunction of memory falls to Israel, and to Israel alone... the absolute privilege, the absolute uniqueness in the experience of the promise (the future) and the injunction of memory (the past)... I would have liked to spend hours, in truth an eternity, meditating while trembling before this sentence: Only in Israel and nowhere else is the injunction to remember felt as a religious imperative to an entire people. How can one not tremble before this sentence? ... Israel both the future and the past as such, both hope... and the duty of memory... Israel alone, Israel as a people and Israel in its totality... The question of exemplarity... situates here the place of all the violences... those which say the One, the difference of the One in the form of uniqueness... and the One in the figure of totalizing assemblage... The gathering into itself of the One is never without violence, nor is the self-affirmation of the Unique, the law of the archontic, the law of consignation which orders the archive... As soon as there is the One, there is murder, wounding, traumatism. L'Un se garde de l'autre... the One forgets to remember itself to itself, it keeps and erases the archive of this injustice that it is. Of this violence that it does. L'Un se fait violence... L'Un se garde de l'autre pour se faire violence... The One, as self-repetition, can only repeat and recall this instituting violence. It can only affirm itself and engage itself in this repetition. This is even what ties in depth the injunction of memory with the anticipation of the future to come... first of all self-repetition [yes, yes] the death drive... superrepression (suppression and repression), the anarchive... the possibility of putting to death the very thing, whatever its name, which carries the law in its tradition: the archon of the archive... the subjectile, the substrate, and the subject of the law... The one is alas, or happily, the condition of the other. And the Other is the condition for the One. ... There would be no future without repetition. And thus, as Freud perhaps would say (this would be his thesis), there is no future without the specter of the oedipal violence which inscribes the superrepression in the archontic institution of the archive, in the position, the auto-position or the hetero-position of the One and of the Unique, in the nomological arkhē. And the death drive. Without this evil, which is also archive fever, the desire and the disorder of the archive, there would be neither assignation nor consignation.
The instructions which govern this operation must be given to the device in absolutely exhaustive  detail.  They  include  all  numerical  information  which  is  required  to  solve  the  problem  under consideration:  Initial  and  boundary  values  of  the  dependent  variables,  values  of  fixed  parameters
(constants), tables of fixed functions which occur in the statement of the problem. These instructions must be given in some form which the device can sense: Punched into a system of punchcards or on teletype tape, magnetically impressed on steel tape or wire, photographically impressed on
motion picture film, wired into one or more fixed or exchangeable plugboards—this list being by no means necessarily complete. All these procedures require the use of some code to express the logical and the algebraical definition of the problem under consideration, as well as the necessary numerical
material (cf. above). Once these instructions are given to the device, it must be able to carry them out completely and without any need for further intelligent human intervention. At the end of the required operations the  device  must  record  the  results  again  in  one  of  the  forms  referred  to  above.  The  results  are numerical data; they are a specified part of the numerical material produced by the device in the process of carrying out the instructions referred to above.
As the project began to fall behind schedule, John Von Neumann of the Institute for Advanced Study (IAS) at Princeton University suggested that the University of Illinois construct its own computer (from: Computing/An Illinois Outline, Urbana: Department of Computer Science)... Illinois obtained permission from the director of IAS, J. Robert Oppenheimer, to construct a computer based on the one being built at the Institute
For Ranciere, 'image' stands for ever-shifting processes of inscription and articulation: the 'sayable and the visible' refer to connections between sight and writing that mutually inform one another. The production of the image implies not that all images are artificially made, but rather that our capacity for image-making and image -receivin are underwritten by a technicity that relationally unbind the phenomenolofgical and cognitive subject.
This digital reorganization means we can anticipate the relatively fast-paced demand for, and creation of, new systems and establishments. Artists are in a unique position to participate in this process as ‘information architects’ using data as raw material ... How one moves through physical space [...] is very much determined by the way an architect has conceived it... When navigating through various software ‘containers’ and inputting our data, we are in effect following the established parameters of information architecture
Such a quantitative growth of new media has led to a reinvention of our concepts and practices of communication, information, community, property, space, and even the concept of the subject itself. As a network, the World Wide Web provides the means for a virtually direct and diversified interactivity, flexible and advanced distribution of information, and greater possibilities for the integration of art, technology, and social life. The technological possibilities of the new media, what Sean Cubitt has referred to as the ‘transience’ (as opposed to the ‘ephemerality’) of media arts, compel us to abandon the notion that artworks are stable isolated objects, and challenge the rights, economies, and forms of production traditionally associated with them... the new media makes us aware of how our experience of the world as such was always already minimally virtual in the sense that a whole set of symbolic presuppositions determine our sense of reality.
Bourriaud does not regard relational aesthetics to be simply a theory of interactive art. He considers it to be a means of locating contemporary practive within the culture at large: relational art is seen as a direct response to the shift from goods to a service-based economy. It is also seen as a response to the virtual relationships of the Internet and globalization, which on the one hand have prompted a desire for more physical and face-to-face interaction between people, while on the other have inspired artists to adopt a do-it-yourself (DIY) approach and model their own 'possible universes' (ra,p.13)... instead of a 'utopian' agenda, today's artists seek only to find provisional solutions in the here and now; instead of trying to change their environment, artists today are simply 'learning to inhabit the world in a better way'; instead of looking forward to a future utopia, this art sets up functioning 'microtopias' in the presend (ra.p13). Burriaud summarizes this new attitude vividly in one sentence: "It seems more pressing to invent possible relations with our neighbors in the present than to bet on happier tomorrows: (ra.p45). This DIY, microtopian ethos is what Bourriaud perceives to be the core political significance of relational aesthetics.
What is said about 'digital' also applies to the notion of 'multimediality', which is usually taken to refer to the 'seamless integration of data, text, sound, and images of all kinds with a single, digital information environtment'. The  use of the term 'multimedia' has indeed, as this definition suggests, been restricted to refer to digital, computer-based environment. However, as Manovich again rightly points out, multimediality is not a feature unique to new media. Cinema, television and the theatre already combine images, texts, sounds and often slide projections, rear projections and other sorts of special effects obtained by the inclusion of one or more 'other'media. The 'multimediality' o fthe theatre in fact inspired Einsteint's concept of 'montage of attractions'. .... Multimedia , then, actually mmeans that a single information environment offers the user simultaneous access to different sorts of media. The novelty of new media, therefore, primaritly consists of the computer's capacity to give access t different types of media at the same time, and this basically boils down to a capacity to present 'old media' in new ways and to suggest new uses for these old media. Multimediality in itself is, however, neither unique nor new, and the novelty of new media mainly and most importantly consists of a repositioning and redefinition of old media: what Jay David Bolter and Richard Grusin call  'remediation'. 
The second and most encompassing aim of my project has been to address a new kind of anthropological object. ... The aim to expand the framework of anthropology to include the critical analysis of dominant elements of western culture and of modernity... to turn [antrhopologie's] techniques of analysis and criticism toward new objects: forms of power, forms of society and culture that have not yet been analyzed. ... such a reorientation will provide the tools for a truly reflexive anthropology, one that can analyze the interrelations between dominant forms of knowledge and their institutional and sociohistorical contexts–wether reflxively, with regard to anthropology, or more generally, after Foucault, in developing and increasingly astute social theory of culture, knowledge, and power.... I sketch a theoretical basis from which to engage in critique of cultural forms as at once social, theoretical, technological, and aesthetic: as complex totalities operating at all of these levels, all of which must be addressed if we are to attempt to develop new possibilities both for contemporary music and for cultural  production in general. ... [note 5]  I use the term discourse in this book in two related, more and less inclusive senses as it was developed in the work of Foucault (1972,1977,1980) (See also Laclau 1980 and Cousins and Hussain 1984,77-97) The restricted sense refers to a system of meaning produced in linguistic practices. The inclusive sense refers to Foucault's theory of "discursive formations" in which, by historical analysis, he traces the close interrelations between power and dominant systems of knoledge as they are embodied in, or produced by, specific practices, institutions, and technologies. In this wider sense discourse thus includes the practices, technologies, and institutions enjoined by a particular form of knowledge –its material and social embodiment.
In their common debate, Hobbes's and Boyle's descendants offer us the resources we have used up to now: on the one hand, social force and power; on the other, natural force and mechanism. On the one hand, the subject of law; on the other, the object of science. The political spokespersons come to represent the quarrelsome and calculating multitude of citizens; the scientific spokespersons come to represent the mute and material multitude of objects. The former translate their principals, who cannot all speak at once; the latter translate their constituents, who are mute from birth. The former can betray; so can the latter.
once referred to as 'computer art', then multimedia art and cyberarts (from the 1960s-90s), digital art now is often used interchangeably with 'new media art'. .... what exactly is 'new' about the digital medium? Some of the convepts exlored in digital art date back almost a century, adn many others have been previously addressed in various 'traditional' arts. What is in factnew ist that digital technology has now reached such a stage of development that it offers entirely new possibbilities for the creation and experience of art.
The computer age brought with it a new cultural algorithm: reality->media->data->data- base. ... As a cultural form, database represents the world as a list of items, and it refuses to order this list. In contrast, a narrative creates a cause-and-effect trajectory of seemingly unordered items (events). Therefore, database and narrative are natural enemies. 
The intention to produce a musical expe- rience does not necessarily include the intention to reveal explicit information about the sources of composition. However, when the composer does intend the listener to understand extra-musical information, the work then enters the realm of sonification.
I am suggesting that this self is not only irretrievably 'outside.' constituted in social discourse, but that the ascription of interiority is itself a publically regulated and sanctioned form of essence fabrication. Genders, then, can be neither true nor false, neither real nor apparent. And yet, one is compelled to live in a world in which genders constitute univocal signifiers, in which gender is stabilized, polarized, rendered discrete and intractable [...] That this reassurance [that there is an essentialism of gender identity after all] is so easily displaced by anxiety, that culture so readily punishes or maginalizes those who fail to perform the illusion of gender essentialism should be sign enough that on some level there is social knowledge that the truth or falsity of gender is only socially compelled and in no sense ontologically necessitated.
In order to go beyond this slight degree of originality, other functions would have to be created, or no functions should exist at all. One is therefore obliged to conceive of forms from thoughts bearing no relation to the preceeding ones, thoughts without limits of shapes and without end.
Hayles’s “Informatics” includes “the late capitalist mode of flexible accumulation; the hardware and software that have merged telecommunications with computer technology; and the patterns of living that emerge from and depend upon instant transmission of information and access to large data banks."
Our civilization has reshaped data into a form of storytelling.... [the death of dramatic structure] or at least the end of a narrative culture dominated by drama and melodrama.... unease of data today (to reinforce terrorism, surveillance, military adventurism) brings serious challenges for the media arts. How should we adapt “data-driven” story to our tense condition as of 2007... a new strategy for data story points toward a new beginning for all forms of narrative, like the origins of the novel ... “Story” is a sculpting of madness. But what is the madness of data in our culture? ... Data, through media, must turn into a form of erasure, not blood- curdling realism. ... Data remind us that we are being colonized by our own economy, outsourced and psychologically invaded. 
Or what about the most basic media types: text, images, video, sound, maps? Obviously, these media types have different representational and expressive capabilities; they can produce different emotional effects; they are processed by different networks of neurons; and hey also likely correspond to different types of mental processes and mental representations. These differences have been discussed for thousand of years --from ancient philosophy to classical aesthetic theory to modern art theory and contemporary neuroscience. For example, sound, video, and animation can represent temporal processes; language can be used to specify logical relations; and so on. Software did not change much here. What it did fundamentally change, however, is how concrete instances of such media types (and their various combinations) function in practice. The result is that any such instance lost much of its unique identity. What as users we experience as particular properties of a piece of media come from software used to create, edit, present, and access this content.
Es entonces interesante pensar en la composición con nuevos medios no como un proceso individual y vertical sino como un proceso de diálogo constante con las personas y los medios o tecnologías que nos rodean. No en la tecnología como un ente pasivo que controlamos, sino como un agente que propone y al cual respondemos en un ciclo de retroalimentación constante.
The surface “in between” networks is either connected -but then the network is expanding- or non-existing. Literally, a network has no outside. 
I became obsessed with thinking how online ‘bodies’ could be represented in the vast networked information space without losing identity or becoming static pages on the Web. When we datamine the data of a person, how do we connect to the fact that this is a flesh-and-blood individual?
the contemporary scenes that Eno gee up in and out of, broadly speaking, was on the cusp of what French sociologists Alain Minc and Simon Nora referred to in 1978 as the "comp[uterization of society" --the rise and intersection of networks and computation, stating simple, "The applications of the computer have developed to such an extent that the economic and social organization of our societ and our way of life may well be transformed as a result" . This intersection has inarguably changed the world. (the computerization of society: a report to the president of france, cambridge, 1979)... 
Thinking of the contemporary as a period—and, of course, the real power of any periodising concept is heuristic, enabling us to see the familiar in new and productive ways—allows us to draw connections between occurrences and events that are unfolding. The first is social and political (and to a large degree economic) and relates to what has, since the end of the Cold War, come to be referred to
as ‘globalisation’. ...Globalisation thus stands as an attempt to name the present—it is a periodising concept, especially when it announces the end of internationalism or, even more ominously, the end of history. Globalisation takes a number of forms within the context of the art world. One is the thematic or iconographic representations of global integration in a diverse body of works. ... Another form that globalisation takes within the art world is the proliferation of large global exhibitions in temporary contexts (that is to say, biennials, triennials, Documentas, art fairs, and the like). ... ‘The global exhibitions’, Martha Rosler stated in a recent roundtable discussion, ‘serve as grand collectors and translators
of subjectivities under the latest phase of globalization’.9 And yet, the structure of these global exhibitions follows the logic of the market: ‘the means of selection have been institutionalized . . . Artists are commonly put forward by other interested parties, such as powerful galleries and curators, whose investment is often linked to prospective sales. ...  the neoliberal economy of globalisation has been accompanied by new collecting practices. Gone is the chic collector who seeks cultural capital, let alone the connoisseur of early modernism; art collecting today is largely dominated by purchases of sheer speculation.
Bataille went through the experience of realizing that the nostalgia for a communal being was at the same time the desire for a work of death. In opposition to this [nostalgia for communion... 'loss' of community] modern, feverish kind of 'Rousseauism,' [Bataille] came made two observations: [1] sacrifice, glory, and the expenditure remain simulations as long as they stop short of the work of death, so nonsimulation is the impossible itself; [2] in the simulation itself (that is to say, in the simulation of immanent being), the work of death is nevertheless still accomplished [...] in the form of the domination, oppression, extermination, and exploitation to which all socio-political systems finally lead. [...] The reversal of the nostalgia for a lost community into the consciousness of an 'immense failure' of the history of communities was linked for Bataille to the 'inner experience,' whose content, truth, or ultimate lesson is articulated thus: 'Sovereignty is NOTHING.' [...] exposure to an excess (to a transcendence) that does not present itself and does not let itself be appropriated (or simulated), that does not even give itself –but rather to which being is abandoned. The excess to which sovereignty is exposed and exposes us is not, [...] that is, in the sense in which the Being of the finite being is less what makes it be than what leaves it abandoned to such an ex-position. [...] Thus, exposure to the NOTHING of sovereignty is the opposite of the movement of a subject [...] the permanent movement of the Subject, indefinitely devouring in itself the nothingness represented by everything that is not for itself. [...] in nothing [...] being is 'outside itself' [...], it is of [an] exteriority, that it is of an outside that it cannot relate to itself, but which it entertains an essential and incommensurable relation. This relation prescribes the plae of the singular being. [...] Only community furnishes this relation its spacing, its rhythm. [...] the modern experience of community as neither a work to be produced, nor a lost communion, but rather a space itself. [...] the exigency [...] of a 'clear consciousness' [the Hegelian self-consciousness but suspended on the limit of its access to self] of separation, of the fact that immanence or intimacy cannot [...] be regained. [...] Clear consciousness of the communal night [...] the suspension of Hegelian desire (of consciousness's desire for recognition),  [...] can only take place as the communication of community: both as what communicates within community, and as what community communicates. This consciousness–or this communication– is ecstasy [which] is never mine, but [...] I only have it in and through the community. [...] [C]ommunity is the ecstatic consciousness of the night of immanence, insofar as such a consciousness is the interruption of self-consciousness.
In the computerized paradigm, humans are perceived as information [...] or as information-processing entities. In both cases, the ‘human’ is abstracted from the larger social conditions we occupy. If we juxtapose these assumptions with late capitalism, moving away from durable product to information, we can easily translate this to the art world’s dematerialisation of the object. We could celebrate this event as a victory of conceptual movements or see it as a dangerous intersection where information about us is being collected, stored, and databased without the opportunity for us to choose, or to know, or to accept either its worth or its consequences.
Thus just as a database form can be seen as an expression of a 'database complex', an irrational desire to preserve and store everything, navigable space is not just a purely functional interface. It is also an expression and gratification of a psychological desire, a state of being, a subject position -or rather, a subject's trajetory. If the subject of modenr society looked for refuge from the chaos of the real world in the stability and balance of the static composition of a painting, and later in the cinematic image, the subject of the information society finds peace in the knowledge that she can slide over endles fields of data, locating any morsel of information with the click of a button, zooming through file systems and networks. She is conforted not by the equilibrium of shapes and colors, but by the variety of data manipulation operations at her control.
The notion of network, in its barest topological outline, allows us already to reshuffle spatial metaphors that have rendered the study of society-nature so difficult: close and far, up and down, local and global, inside and outside. They are replaced by associations and connections 
In this passage from 'the author as producer', ... Benjamin precisely described my artistic vision and my position as practicioner: 'What matters, therefore, is the exemplary character of production, which is able first to induce other producers to produce, and second to put an improved apparatus at their disposal. And this apparatus is better the more consumers it is able to turn into producer --that is, readers or spectators into collaborators ... ' (Benjamin 1978). I see myself as a context provider, stretching hte concept of artitistic creation from making content to making context. My goal is to avoid representation --not to speak for other but to provide them with the means to speak for themselves, to speak and be heard. Context provision is about decentering --making multtiple spsaces-- not telling a truth but truths in the plural. It is about facilitating the kind of critical, utopian imaginaries that force us to see the contextual realities of social oppression and othering --the terrible closure of the system in which we are trapped. Context provision is Benjamin's 'apparatus'.
the archive is made possible by the death, aggression, and destruction drive, that is to say also by originary finitude and expropriation... anarchiving destruction belongs to the process of archivization and produces the very thing it reduces... Freud claims not to believe in death and above all in the virtual existence of the specetral space which he nonetheless takes into account... He wants to think through the grain of truth of this belief, but he believes that one cannot not believe in them and that one ought not to believe in them. Belief, the radical phenomenon of believing, the only relationship possible to the other as other, does not in the end have any possible place, any irreducible status in Freudian psychoanalysis. Which it nonetheless makes possible... phantoms speak for the duration of the archaeological digs but finishes by exorcising them in the moment he at last says, the work having been terminated (or supposed to have been) "Stones talk!"
Enlightenment has always sympathized with the social impulse. The unity of the manipulated colelctive consists in the negation of each individual: for individuality makes a mockery of the kind of society which would turn all individuals to the one collectivity... the horde... the triumph of repressive equality... Abstraction, the tool of enlightenment, treats is objects as did fate, the notion of which it rejects: it liquidates them. Under the leveling domination of abstraction (which makes everything in nature repeatable), and of industry (for which abstraction ordains repetition), the freedom themselves finally came to form that "herd" which Hegel (Phenomenology of Spirit, p.242) has declared to be the result of the Enlightenment. The distance between subject and object, a presupposition of abstraction, is grounded in the distance from the thing itself which the master achieved through the mastered.... With the end of a nomadic existence, the social order is created on a basis of fixed property. Mastery and labor are divided.
... a writing machine of marvelous complexity into which the whole of the psychical apparatus will be projected... Breaching [Bahnung; derived from Bahn, road, and literally means pathbreaking. Derrida's translation of Bahnung is frayage... se frayer un chemin... it is clumsy, but it is crucial to maintain the sense of the force that breaks open a pathway, and the space opened by this force], the tracing of a trail, opens up a conducting path. Which presupposes a certain violence and a certain resistance to effraction. The path is broken, cracked, fracta, breached. Now there would be two kinds of neurones: the permeable neurones, which offer no resistance and thus retain no trace of impression [perceptual neurones]; other neurones, which would oppose contact-barriers to the quantity of excitation, would thus retain the printed trace: they "thus afford a possibility of representing (darzustellen) memory". This is the first representation, the first staging of memory. (Darstellung is representation in the weak sense of the word, but also frequently in the sense of visual depiction, and sometimes of theatrical performance...) Memory, thus, is not a psychical property among others; it is the very essence of the psyche: resistance, and precisely, thereby, an opening to the effraction of the trace. ... simple opposition of quantity and quality... It is the difference between breaches which is the true origin of memory, and thus of the psyche. ...Trace as memory... the ungraspable and invisible difference between breaches... the difference within the exertion of forces. ... That quantity becomes  psychē and mnēmē through differences rather than through plenitudes... Repetition adds no quantity of present force, no intensity; it reproduces the same impression –yet it has the power of breaching.
The computer employed for MUSIC I was an IBM 704, the immediate successor to IBM's very first computer, the 701. In common with all first‐generation computers of the time it was based on slow and often unreliable valve technology. The introduction of transistor‐based circuits in the late 1950s held the vital key to more efficient computer architectures, and by the end of the decade an entirely new family of machines entered production. Bell Telephone Laboratories took delivery of one of these second‐generation computers, an IBM 7094, just in time for Mathews to adapt and complete his work on MUSIC II. Assisted by Joan Miller, (p.188) he then embarked on a much‐expanded version of this program offering a variety of synthesis and signal processing functions, MUSIC III, completed early in 1960.
Any visual, digital image— from print to video—has ultimately been produced by instructions and the software that was used to create or manipulate it. ... “back end” of algorithms and data sets that remain hidden and a visible “front end” that is experienced by the viewer/user, the latter being produced by the former. ... understanding of “database aesthetics” seems to be more focused on the operations on the “front end" ... tension between the mostly linear and hierarchical structure of databases ... and instructions, on the one hand, and, on the other, the seemingly infinite possibili- ties for reproducing and reconfiguring the information contained within these structures.
Foster's assumtion is that the artist-as-ethnographer will engage in observation to produce a representation and that any representation so produced will become a projection of the artist's own perspective and assumptions. Certainly this is a likely outcome of many authorial approaches. However, Benjamin does not propose a new approach to representation but the construction of a new apparatus that provides a context for self-representation. He asserts that the author should operate as a context provider, avoiding representation, not speaking for others, but providing them with the means to speak for themselves.
in composing music, we are composing time, that is, we are articulating it into a variety of temporalities. I believe that this affirmation acquires a very concrete meaning through the use of the computer, which constitutes a tool for shaping time at all possible levels.
incorporate the observer as part of the system ... self-reflexive, self-organizing, self-making ... envelops the observer/subject within its field .. sys- tem and subject, perception and representation, are collapsed, elided—there is no exterior ... Bakhtin’s dialogic, polyphonic, multivocal model for narrative, ... a whole formed by the interaction of many entities or con- sciousnesses none of which entirely becomes an object for the other, ... avoidance of objectification—non-participating third parties are not represented in any way—only participating voices speak within and through their own intersubjective experience
Put similarly by Jean-Luc Nancy, who philosophizes on the shared space of sound and meaning, the latter, meaning. "is made of a totality of referrals: froom a singn to a thing, from a state of things to a quality, from a subject to another subject or to itself, all simultaneously. Sound is also made of referrals: it spereads in space, where it resounds while still resounding 'in me'". ...
The image that 'generates itself' seems to be a monstrosity, a non-thing [Unding], if one assummes that people produce images;  that is, that images do not come into being absent an intentional act but are rather the results of conscious or unconsious intentions. 

Arendt’s rethinking of praxis is related to the more immediate task of delimiting the space of the political as the public realm in which human beings can act in concert in order to define themselves in historical terms.
Interaction: "acting upon each other". Interaction might occur between people, between people and machines, between  machines, or between artwork and audience. However, examples of humans and machines or humans and artworks truly acting upon each other are relatively rare. What is popularity termed interaction in there cases is often a more simple 'reaction' -a human presses keys or trigger sensors, and the machine or computer program reacts. ... What computer programs can offer are highly complex, branching, evolving reactions. This reactivity can significantly affect the audience experience in terms of choice, navigation, control, engagement, or .... time and space. ... What  computer-based media cannot offer is the kind of truly symmetrical interaction between human and machine that would approximate a good conversation (verbal, visual or otherwise). No computer program has yet passed the Turing Test for artificial intelligence, where a human judge must decide whether his or her typed dialogue is with a human or a computer.
“Will information be available and free in the public domain, or will it be patented and owned by the large corporate sector?”
The body is a historical situation, as Beauvoir has claimed, and is a manner of doing, dramatizing, and reproducing a historical situation. To do, to dramatize, to reproduce, these seem to be some of the elementary structures of embodiment [...] Embodiment clearly manifests a set of strategies or what Sartre would perhaps have called a style of being or Foucault, "a stylistics of existence." This style is never fully self-styled, for living styles have a history, and that history conditions and limits possibilities. Consider gender, for instance, as a cordporeal style, an 'act,' as it were, which is both intentional and performative, where 'performative' itself carries the double-meaning of 'dramatic' and 'non-referential.'
The unworking of community takes place around what Bataille for a very long time called the sacred. [...] nothing other than the unleashing of passions. [...] the violent and unbridled movement of a free subjectivity disposed toward the sovereign destruction of all things as toward its consumption in NOTHING. [...] It furnishes [...] the 'awful sign' by which our impossible truth might be recognized [...] itself submitted to an ultimate reserve (or sublation) of the Subject: the sovereignly subjective annihilation of subjectivity itself. A kind of incandescent nihilism [recalling] Hegel, and yet i is no longer Hegel. It is no longer the State, but it is still a work of death. [...] If the inoperative community is to be found in the vicinity of the 'sacred,' it is only inasmuch as the 'unleashing of passions' is not the free doing of a subjectivity and freedom is not self-sufficiency. [...] Contagion, another name for 'communication' [What] is 'unleashed' is the passion of singularity as such. The singular being, because it is singular, is in the passion –the passivity, the suffering, and the excess– of sharing its singularity [...] only exposition to the other unleashes my passions. [...] The singular being does not know, but rather experiences his like/i> (son semblable) [...] This is its passion. Singularity is the passion of being. The like-being bears the revelation of sharing [...] It is in the death of the other [...] that community enjoins me to its ownmost register, but this does not occur through the mediation of specular recognition. For I do not recognize myself in the death of the other–whose limit nonetheless exposes me irreversibly. [...] This is how sharing –and finitude– can be inscribed: 'The ending implied in death does not signify a Dasein's Being-at-an-end, but a Being-toward-the-end of this entity.'[Heidegger, Being and Time, paragraph 47-8]. [...] We 'resemble' together [...] there is no original or origin identity [...] the origin is the tracing of the borders upon which or along which singular beings are exposed. We are alike because each one of us is exposed to the outside that we are for ourselves [...] I experience the other's alterity, or I experience alterity in the other. [...] The passion that is unleashed is nothing other than the passion of and for community, and this emerges as the desubjectivization of the passion for death. [It seeks] neither the Hegelian desire for recognition nor the calculated operation of mastery [or] the self-appropriation of subjective immanence. Rather, it is what is designated by the doublet of the word 'jouissance,' namely joy (joie). The practice of 'joy before death' [...] is a ravishing of the singular being [...] It is a nocturnal splendor [attaining], to the point of touching but without appropriating it to itself, the extreme point of its singularity, the end of its finitude.
He proposes instead a community that, while breaking with or irreducible to the social as a figure of exteriority, is founded not on the interiority of an identity but on a movement of exposure or exposition (to death, to the other). Importantly, Nancy’s account of the movement of community also challenges the properly Marxist determination of community not as the sharing of a common, given substance or identity but as its production and (re)appropriation. At the centre of the Marxist account is therefore a figure of the human community – in his early work, Karl Marx (1818–83) sometimes used the term Gemeinwesen – that has no given identity other than what it itself produces, through its collective action, historically. It is to this figure of humanity as self-producing or self-positing subject that Nancy opposes a ‘we’ constituted by a movement of exposure or ex-position.
Nancy’s ‘The Inoperative Community’ proposes a form of community refractory to both society understood as a system of external relations founded on necessity or need and community as the sharing of a given or produced substance. The subtlety of this conceptual needle-threading is, as mentioned above, complicated by the final moment of Nancy’s essay, concerning the political. Community is an exigency and not simply given: it commands action. But this action cannot take the form of production. Community must, it would seem, be brought about even if this exposition of community cannot take the form of labour, production or a work (IC, 31). 
Central among the questions raised by the crisis of musical modernisms is to what extent composers are aware of the relation between their aesthetic and the likely fate of their music in terms of public reception and economic subsidy. Or does this relation, and the way that it might feed back into composers' aesthetic choices, remain largely an involuntary and/or unconscious one? This touches on the heart of romantic conceptions of the artist, in which the artist is simply an involuntary vessel through which inspiration flows. The aesthetic is seen here as an essential extension of the self, almost beyond conscious reach, and integrity is gauged by the artist's determined commitment to this aesthetic. In questioning this view, a different conception of the artist as subject and of the artistic oeuvre may be required (Foucault 1984c)... Poststructuralist critiques of authorship are therefore metonymic of the wider questioning of classic humanist notions of a unified, sovereign, and rational subject. I employ psychoanalytic theory to sketch an alternative conception of the composer-subject.
A phantom speaks... without responding it desposes of a response... a spectral response is always (thus informed by a technē and inscribed in an archive) is always possible. There would be neither history nor tradition nor culture without that possibility.
Working to undermine a linear narrative, Greenaway uses different systems to order his films. He wrote about this approach: “If a numerical, alphabetic color-coding system is employed, it is done deliberately as a device, a construct, to counteract, dilute, augment or complement the all-pervading obsessive cinema interest in plot, in narrative, in the ‘I am now going to tell you a story’ school of film-making.”23 His favorite system is numbers. ...Along with Greenaway, Dziga Vertov can be thought of as a major “data- base filmmaker” of the twentieth century. His film Man with a Movie Camera
If you want to escape our prison of software --or at least better understand what media is today --stop downloading apps created by others. Instead, learn to program --and teach it to your students.
The similarity between the actions expected from the player and computer algorithms is too uncanny to be dismissed. While computer games do not follow database logic, they appear to be ruled by another logic—that of an algorithm. They demand that a player executes an algorithm in order to win.
First, incorporated knowledge retains improvisational elements that make it contextual rather than abstract, tied to the circumstances of its instantiation. Second, it is deeply sedimented into the body and highly resistant to change. Third, it is partly screened from conscious view because it is habitual. Fourth, because it is contextual, resistant to change, and obscure to the cogitating mind, it has the power to define the boundaries within which conscious thought takes place. To these four I want to add a fifth. When changes in incorporating practices take place, they are often linked with new technologies that affect how people use their bodies and experience space and time. Formed by technology at the same time that it creates technology, embodiment mediates between technology and discourse by creating new experiential frameworks that serve as boundary markers for the creation of corresponding discursive systems. In the feedback loop between technological innovations and discursive practices, incorporation is a crucial link. [Mark Johnson:] It is a truism in contemporary theory that discourse writes the body; Johnson illustrates how the body writes discourse. [...]metaphors, Johnson argues, have a basis in bodily experience[...] because of either technological innovations or other cultural shifts, changing experiences of embodiment bubble up into language, affecting the metaphoric networks at play within the culture. At the same time, discursive constructions affect how bodies move through space and time, influence what technologies are developed, and help to structure the interfaces between bodies and technologies. [...] one should be able to triangulate between incorporation, inscription, and technological materiality to arrive at a fuller description of these feedback loops [emerging technologies of informatics:]  VR is merely one site among many in contemporary culture where the material effects of a predilection toward immateriality can be observed. The predilection catalyzes the technology, and the technology reifies and extends the predilection. Discursively, the technology interacts with metaphoric networks of in/out and container/contained, making the distinction indicated by the slash less a boundary than a permeable membrane across which subjectivity is diffused.[...]

What men want to learn from nature is how to use it in order wholly to dominate it and other men. That is the only aim. Ruthlessly, in despite of itself, the Enlightenment has extinguished any trace of its own self-consciousness.
To be listening is thus to enter into tension and to be on the lookout for a relation to self: not it shoudl be emphasized, a relationship to "me" (the supposedly given subject), or to the "self" or the other (the speaker, the musician, also supposedly given, with his subjectivity), but to the relationship in self, so to speak, as it forms a "self" or a "to itself" in general, and if something like that ever does reach the end of its formation. consecuently, listening is passing over to the register of presence to self, it being understood that the "self" is precisely nothing available (substantial or subsistent) to which one can be "present," but precisely the resonance of a return [renvoi]
The phenomenon of added value is especially at work in the case of sound/image synchronism, via the principle of synchresis (see chapter 3), the forging of an immediate and necessary rela- tionship between something one sees and something one hears. Most falls, blows, and explosions on the screen, simulated to some extent or created from the impact of nonresistant materials, only take on consistency and materiality through sound. But first, at the most basic level, added value is that of text, or language, on image.
[...] as soon as it is present, the sonorous is omnipresent [and] it is always at once an advance, penetration, insistence, obsession, possession, as well as presence 'on the rebound' (quoting Valéry cahiers II p.68) [...] resounding according to the play of [acoustic] components [...] beyond a simple opposition between consonance and dissonance, being made [...] of the discordant harmony that regulates the intimate as such [...] sonorous presence is an essentially mobile 'at the same time' [...] there is the simultaneity of the visible and the contemporaneity of the audible. [...] always within return and encounter. It returns (refers) to itself, it encounters itself [it] occurs against itself. [...] Rhythm separates the succession of the linearity of the sequence or length of time: it bends time [...] it folds and unfolds a 'self' [...] Temporality is the dimension of the subject [defining] the subject as what separates itself, not only from the other or from the pure 'there,' but also from self: insofar as it waits for itself and retains itself, insofar as it desires (itself) and forgets (itself), insofar as it retains, by repeating it, its own empty unity and its projected or ... ejected unicity. [...] The sonorous [...] is a place that becomes a subject insofar as sound resounds there. [...] The setting in motion of place is identically that of the present instant. What subtracts the sonorous present from the negative and chronometric punctuality of the pure and simple present. [...] In order to describe awareness of time, Husserl uses the paradigm of listening to a melody. [The present of this perception] is not instantaneous, but differential in itself. [Music listening] comes to support and expose a capture in principle of unity in difference, and of the latter in the former [...[ the unity of monitoring the melody and its modulation [...] is effectuated in what Husserl calls the 'living present.' This present is the now of a subject that gives, on first and final hearing [instance], its presence to the present, or its present to presence. [...] the 'living present' resounds [...] resonance of instances or stances of the instant, in each other. [...] Husserl, according to Granel, perpetuates the 'forgetting of being' in the Heideggerian sense [...] he does not concentrate his ear on musical resonance but rather converts it ahead of time into the object of an intention that configures it. Sound (and/or sense) is what is not at first intended. [...] sound is what places its subject, which has not preceded it with an aim, in tension, or under tension. [...] music (or even sound in general)  is not exactly a phenomenon; that is to say, it does not stem from a logic of manifestation.  It stems from a different logic, which would have to be called evocation [...] manifestation brings presence to light, evocation summons (convokes, invokes) presence to itself. [...] Evocation: a call and, in the call, breath, exhalation, inspiration and expiration. In appellare, what comes first is no the idea of 'naming,' but that of a pressure, an impulsion. [...] It is a question, then, of going back from the phenomenological subject, and intentional line of sight, to a resonant subject, an intensive spacing of a rebound [...] the subject of listening is always still yet to come, spaced, traversed, and called by itself, sounded by itself. [...] from phenomenological order to ontological retreat and recoil. [...] Husserl persists in 'seeing' the melody instead of listening to it... [...] The subject of the listening or the subject who is listening (but also the one who is 'subject to listening' [...]) is not a phenomenological subject. This means that he is not a philosophical subject, and, finally, he is perhaps no subject at all, except as the place of resonance, of its infinite tension and rebound [...]
The switch to computers as a means of storing and accessing enourmous amounts of media material [...] created the need to find more efficient ways to classify and search media objects.
the status of science and technologym if technocracy and the control of knowledge and information today... investigated as a subset of the vaster political problem of legitimation of a whole social order... [An aesthetic event which] has relatively immediate philosophical and ideological analogues: [the] crisis of representation, in which an essentially realistic epistemology, which conceives of representation as the reproduction, for subjectivity, of an objectivity that lies outside it –projects a mirror theory of knowledge and art, whose fundamental evaluative categories are those of adequacy, accuracy, and Truth itself.
Lev Manovich, in his The Language of New Media, discusses the database as the center of the creative process in the computer age.11 He sees it as a new symbolic form – as “the projection of the ontology of the computer into culture itself.” He speaks about modern media as a battleground between a system which relied first and foremost on the narrative form and the new culture based on the database: “After the novel, and subsequently cinema, privileged narrative as the key form of cultural expression of the modern age, the computer age introduces its correlate – the database.”12
Fielding understood digression in much the same way, as an archiectural journey through what Lev Manovich calls “navigable spaces.” ...  The computer changes the role of the reader, as in a scripted space. In new forms of data story, the reader imagines her- self as a central character. The reader identifies with the first line not yet written, with the making of a story—much more than with the “ending,” which can be contrived anyway. Or as Bertolt Brecht called it, plot points as sausage links.
Simply put, data story on the computer is a picaresque filled with apho- risms, with pieces of narrative that never “fill in the blanks.” Meanwhile, the reader gets immersed in all this “atmospheric” data. Next, the reader evolves pleasantly into the author. Finally, instead of an ending, the reader imagines herself about to start writing—like the player adding a new “mod."
For enlightenment is as totalitarian as any system. Its untruth does not consist in what its romantic enemies have always reproached it for: analytical method, return to elements, dissolution through reflective thought; but instead in the fact that for enlightenment the process is always decided from the start... Nature, before and after the quantum theory, is that which is to be comprehended mathematically... [enlightenment] confounds thought and mathematics.... [Husserl, Die Krisis der europäischen Wissenshaften und die transzendentale Phänomenologie]: 'An infinite world, in this case a world of idealities, is conceived as one whose objects do not accede singly, imperfectly, and as if by chance to our cognition, but are attained by a rational, systematically unified method–in a process of infinite progression–so that each object is ultimately apparent according to its full inherent being.... In the Galilean mathematization of the world, however, this selfness is idealized unde the guidance of the new mathematics: in modern terms, it becomes itself a mathematical multiplicity.' Thinking objectifies itself to become an automatic, self-activating process; an impersonation of the machine that it produces itself so that ultimately the machine can replace it.
It is my strong feeling that the emerging information aesthetics (i.e., the new cultural features specific to the information society) already have or will have a very different logic from modernism. The latter was driven by a strong desire to erase the old, a desire visible as much in the avant-garde artists' (particularly the futurists') statements that museums should be burned as in the dramatic destruction of all social and spiritual realities of many people in Russia after the 1917 Revolution, and in other countries after they became Soviet satellites after 1945. Culturally and ideologically, modernists wanted to start with a tabula rasa, radically distancing themselves from the past. ... Today we fcace the very real danger of being imprisoned by a new international style, something we can call the new 'global style'. the cultural globalizzation, of which cheap airline flight, the Web, and billions of mobile phones are three most visible manifetations, erases some dimension of the cultural specificityuy with an energy and speed impossible fo modernism. 
...this exploration shows ... that images --whether mental or material, microtemporal or macrotemporal, proto-conscious or phenomenologically conscious --are irreducibly temporal entities or processes ... rather than their being --and indeed as the precondition for their becoming-- 'fixed mentral' or material, images are fundamentally temporal processes or ... temporallizations of 'light-matter'.
in addition to the Chronofile, which is considered to be the heart of his archives, he left behind the Dymaxion index, blueprints, photos, patents, manuscripts, and a large amount of random elements. He saved all his correspondences, sketches, doodles made during his meetings, backs of envelopes, and newspaper-edged notes --everything possible that was a record of his thought. He save all films, videos, wire and tape recordings, and posters announcing his lectures, awards, mementoes, relevant books, everything he published at various stages, all indexes, drafting tools, typewriters, computers, furniture, file cabinets, paintings, photos, diplomas, and cartoons. [...] Fuller is a great example of someone who becomes more and more ambitious to document not only himself but also the world around him in the form of a database.
For Hegel, the difference between what a thing is and how it appears is internal to the subject, which in the largest sense for him is Geist, that magical Slinky that can go up stairs all the way to the top, where the Prussian state hangs out.
Because the scene effectively repeats... such a repetition attests that "historical truth" which no breach of "material truth" will ever weaken. What confirms or demostrates a certain truth... is rather the scene of reading it provokes and in which the reader is inscribed in advance. ...the interpretation of the archive... can only illuminate, read, interpret, establish its object... by inscribing itself in it... by opening it and by enriching it enough to have a rightful place in it. There is no meta-archive. ... The archivist produces more archive, and that is why the archive is never closed. It opens out of the future.
Nancy takes this linkage of electric sound to temporality one step further by locating 'sonorous time' as the very immaterial stuff of expansion and resounding as 'a present in waves on a swell, not a point on a line'.
the antinarrative logic of the Web.... If new elements are being added over time, the result is a collection, not a story. Indeed, how can one keep a coherent narrative or any other development trajectory through the material if it keeps changing?
These, then, are the five relatively modern classes of sound poetry: (1) works in an invented language, (2) near-nonsense works, (3) phatic poems, (4) unwritten-out poems, and (5) notated ones. Obviously some of the modern works being generated today still fall within the three classes I described earlier in older sound poetry: (1) folk vaietis, (2) onomatopoetic or mimetic pieces, and (3) nonsensee poetries which trope their own languages.
Technical mediation itself needs to be understood as a nonhuman process within which or through which humans and nonhumans relate. 
Notions of value are derived from the social world of the participating community and focused on transformative process, not product. I would like to appropriate this notion of social aes- thetics, first articulated by William Olander and Craig Owens in the cata- logue for the exhibition “Art and Social Change, U.S.A.” in 1986, and expand it to address public art that critically engages the “materiality of informatics” by employing information and communication technologies.53... Hayles’s “Informatics” is an infrastructure that is of, by, and for the techno- logically enfranchised socioeconomic/political elite, but no one in reach of globalized capitalism, however far outside the infrastructure, is exempt. ... To “do cultural democracy” now, in the context of the materiality of infor- matics, means:”
“• Distributing control over the processes of the database—the accumulation and interpretation of information, the naming and classification of data, for the collective construction of a new social semiotics.
• Building and/or annexing social and technological infrastructures that can enable communities to become the co-designers and creators of programs and systems that facilitate their own reclamation, reintegration, and sustainability. ... Scheherazade was not an author—she spoke in order to sustain her life and save the lives of others. Her storytelling was a political act. The Thousand and One Nights has no single author, only “compilers” of editions and versions—it is a database, a frame tale, stories within a story. [...] Her storytelling produces a nonauthorial, collective subject whose life/lives are saved through this process of subjectification.
Digital technologies change the nature of interatcion itself. Digital functionality -- such as algorithmic caltculations, databases, and telecommunications -- transforma  work of art into a dynamic environment...
In advance, the Enlightenment recognizes as being and occurrence only what can be apprehended in unity: its ideal is the system from which all and everything follows.... the structure of scientific unity has always been the same... The multiplicity of forms is reduced to position and arrangement, history to fact, things to matter.... Formal logic was the major school of unified science. It provided Enlightenment thinkers with the schema of the calculability of the world. The mythologizing equation of Ideas with numbers in Plato's last writings expresses the longing of all demythologization: number became the canon of the Enlightenment. The same equations dominate bourgeois justice and commodity exchange... Bourgeois society is ruled by equivalence. It makes the dissimilar comparable by reducing it to abstract quantities. To the Enlightenment, that which does not reduce to numbers, and ultimately to the one, becomes illusion; modern positivism writes it off as literature.
In her essay 'storytelling as a nexus of change in the relationship between gender and technology: a feminist approach to software design', Justine Cassell (1998) suggests that the principals of feminist research practice offer a solution to the problem of power in the complex relations between author/authority and audience. In feminist software design authority is distributed to collaborating participants by allowing most of the design and construction to be carried out by the participants rather than the designer. The role of the author, and in some cases the role of the system designer, is given to the participant. .... The feminist software designer's goal is to give the 'user' a tool to express something about the truth of her existence -- to tell her story. Anecdotes and stories are distinct from narrative in that they describe, rather than prescribe, real-lived experience. Storytelling facilitates the construction of self and the exploration of social roles. 
Mapping is intersubjective communication: the visualization or repre- sentation of data and information. ... Intersubjective communication occurs when the meaning of data or information is accessible to, or established for, two or more subjects. ... To map social and cultural experience accurately re- quires infrastructures and interfaces that facilitate intersubjective commu- nication, favor dialogue over monologue, and allow representations and interpretations to emerge and evolve—an infrastructure like the database.
Dissecting the human flesh into millimeter pieces, digitizing, and posting on the Internet is at once useful for research and also a portrait of the way the Western medical community has removed itself from the human soul behind the body, which all too frequently is viewed as a machine.
The curators promoting this 'laboratory' ['white cube'] paradigm ... have to a large extent been ecouraged to adopt this curatorial modus operandi as a direct reaction to the type of art produced in the 1990s: work that is open-ended, interactive, and resistant to closure, often appearing to be 'work-in-progress' rather thatn a completed object. Such work seems to derive from a creative misreading of poststructuralist theory: rather thatn the interpretations of a work of art being open to continual reassessment, the work of art itself is argued to be in perpetual flux. ... An effect of this insistent promotion of these ideas of artist-as-designer, function over contemplation, and open-endedness over aesthetic resolution is often ultimately to enhance the status of the curator, who gains credit for stage-managing the overall laboratory experience. As Hal Foster warned in the mid-1990s, "the institiution may overshadow the work that it otherwise highlights: it becomes the spectacle, it collects the cultural capital, and the director-curator becomes the star" (Foster: The Artist as Ethnographer, 1996)
[Vertov's cinematic techniques] are motivated by a particular argument, this being that the new techniques to obtain images and manipulate them, summed up by Vertov in his term “kino-eye,” can be used to decode the world.
In “Death of the Author,”8 Barthes asserted that the author (or artist) is never the source and the site of meaning but rather that meaning is never invented, nor is it locked in. A work exists in a “multidimensional space in which a variety of works, none of them original, blend and clash. The work is a tissue of quotations drawn from the innumerable centers of culture . . . .;” The artist or author is no longer the only container for feelings, impressions, passions, but is rather “this immense dictionary from which he draws a writing (image) that can know no halt: life never does more than imitate the book, and the book itself is only a tissue of signs, an imitation that is lost, infinitely deferred.” This position of refusal to find fixed meanings or originality in authors, artists or their work is a fundamental refusal of what he regarded as an ossified and essentially backward-looking humanism.
[Timbre is] the very resonance of the sonorous. [...] In truth, resonance is at once listening to timbre and the timbre of listening, if one may put it that way. Resonance is at once that of a body that is sonorous for itself and resonance of sonority in a listening body that, itself, resounds as it listens.  [...] It forms the first consistency of sonorous sense as such. [Wittgenstein], after discussing the borderline, or imaginary, experience of hearing a sound separated from its timbre, comes to take timbre as a privileged image of what he calls "private experience," consequently, experience that is not communicable. [...] Communication is not transmission, but a sharing that becomes subject: sharing as subject of all "subjects." An unfolding, a dance, a resonance. Sound in general is first of all communication in this sense. [...] It communicates [itself]. Timbre is not a single datum. [It is] a composition whose complexity continues to increase as acoustic analysis is refined and it goes beyond mere determination of a sound by its harmonics.[...] "Timbre, style, and signature are the same obliterating division of the proper [propre]," [Margins of Philosophy, xix] How they are 'the same,' however, can only be approached as a resonance between them [...] 
Interactive media have special qualities. They avoid the linear sequencing of a film or novel. They allow instead a less linear choice system structured into the work which is designed to function only through viewer action. The viewer will be able to understand the work’s meaning or its conceptual structure only by exploring the many layers and margins which form the context of the piece. Information about parallel related texts or images can be accessed in the data space of the work and brought onto the screen for review as part of its potential to unfold many archival levels .
Up to now, art works have always been shaped by visual artists, poets, writers, composers, choreographers who assumed the total responsibility, opportunity, and challenge of creating their own discrete work without invasion of the work from outside participation. They had to decide on content, format, style, sequence, materials, medium. However, with interactivity, readers, viewers, listeners can pass through the boundaries of the work to enter it. This puts them in a position to gain direct access to an aspect of authoring and shaping the final outcome of a work in a way that never existed before the advent of the computer. The viewer can now have a significant position of power in the work. The artist gives up total control in favor of a new kind of viewer communication and experience, one which offers an active position for the viewer, one which also celebrates the inherent creative capacities of all individuals. The work becomes more of a frame or context which provides an environment for new experiences of exchange and learning. Interactivity offers important new avenues to cognition to take place, where works can begin to flow with the more psychological internal associations of the individual viewer’s consciousness and identity in mind.
Interactive systems utilize processes of exchange, learning, and adaptation and foreground the premise that meaning in a work of art is dependent upon exchange and communication between individuals and groups. They provide a context for participants to reflect their personal understandings about their own social and political contexts.
 Born’s explicit identification of the nearly all- male, all-white musical and cultural canon articulated not only by the French institute, but by its American equivalents, traces the outlines of the development of a post-1950s aesthetic of trans-European experimentalism. Given her so far unrefuted thesis that the overwhelming majority of computer music research and compositional activity locates itself (how- ever unsteadily at times) within the belief systems and cul- tural practices of European concert music, one can easily imagine a work that, like Voyager, exemplifies an area of musical discourse using computers that is not viewed culturally and historically as a branch of trans-European contemporary concert music and, moreover, is not necessarily modeled as a narrative about “composition.”
